<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Bellona Times</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Brazilian Cat</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">It is hard luck on a young fellow to have expensive tastes,</span>
   <span id="f000008">great expectations,</span>
   <span id="f000009">aristocratic connections,</span>
   <span id="f000010">but no actual money in his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and no profession by which he may earn any.</span>
   <span id="f000012">The fact was that my father,</span>
   <span id="f000013">a good,</span>
   <span id="f000014">sanguine,</span>
   <span id="f000015">easy-going man,</span>
   <span id="f000016">had such confidence in the wealth and benevolence of his bachelor elder brother,</span>
   <span id="f000017">Lord Southerton,</span>
   <span id="f000018">that he took it for granted that I,</span>
   <span id="f000019">his only son,</span>
   <span id="f000020">would never be called upon to earn a living for myself.</span>
   <span id="f000021">He imagined that if there were not a vacancy for me on the great Southerton Estates,</span>
   <span id="f000022">at least there would be found some post in that diplomatic service which still remains the special preserve of our privileged classes.</span>
   <span id="f000023">He died too early to realize how false his calculations had been.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Neither my uncle nor the State took the slightest notice of me,</span>
   <span id="f000025">or showed any interest in my career.</span>
   <span id="f000026">An occasional brace of pheasants,</span>
   <span id="f000027">or basket of hares,</span>
   <span id="f000028">was all that ever reached me to remind me that I was heir to Otwell House and one of the richest estates in the country.</span>
   <span id="f000029">In the meantime,</span>
   <span id="f000030">I found myself a bachelor and man about town,</span>
   <span id="f000031">living in a suite of apartments in Grosvenor Mansions,</span>
   <span id="f000032">with no occupation save that of pigeon-shooting and polo-playing at Hurlingham.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Month by month I realized that it was more and more difficult to get the brokers to renew my bills,</span>
   <span id="f000034">or to cash any further post-obits upon an unentailed property.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Ruin lay right across my path,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and every day I saw it clearer,</span>
   <span id="f000037">nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and more absolutely unavoidable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">What made me feel my own poverty the more was that,</span>
   <span id="f000040">apart from the great wealth of Lord Southerton,</span>
   <span id="f000041">all my other relations were fairly well-to-do.</span>
   <span id="f000042">The nearest of these was Everard King,</span>
   <span id="f000043">my father’s nephew and my own first cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000044">who had spent an adventurous life in Brazil,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and had now returned to this country to settle down on his fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000046">We never knew how he made his money,</span>
   <span id="f000047">but he appeared to have plenty of it,</span>
   <span id="f000048">for he bought the estate of Greylands,</span>
   <span id="f000049">near Clipton-on-the-Marsh,</span>
   <span id="f000050">in Suffolk.</span>
   <span id="f000051">For the first year of his residence in England he took no more notice of me than my miserly uncle;</span>
   <span id="f000052">but at last one summer morning,</span>
   <span id="f000053">to my very great relief and joy,</span>
   <span id="f000054">I received a letter asking me to come down that very day and spend a short visit at Greylands Court.</span>
   <span id="f000055">I was expecting a rather long visit to Bankruptcy Court at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and this interruption seemed almost providential.</span>
   <span id="f000057">If I could only get on terms with this unknown relative of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000058">I might pull through yet.</span>
   <span id="f000059">For the family credit he could not let me go entirely to the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000060">I ordered my valet to pack my valise,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and I set off the same evening for Clipton-on-the-Marsh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">After changing at Ipswich,</span>
   <span id="f000063">a little local train deposited me at a small,</span>
   <span id="f000064">deserted station lying amidst a rolling grassy country,</span>
   <span id="f000065">with a sluggish and winding river curving in and out amidst the valleys,</span>
   <span id="f000066">between high,</span>
   <span id="f000067">silted banks,</span>
   <span id="f000068">which showed that we were within reach of the tide.</span>
   <span id="f000069">No carriage was awaiting me</span>
   <span id="f000070">(I found afterwards that my telegram had been delayed),</span>
   <span id="f000071">so I hired a dogcart at the local inn.</span>
   <span id="f000072">The driver,</span>
   <span id="f000073">an excellent fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000074">was full of my relative’s praises,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and I learned from him that Mr.&#160;Everard King was already a name to conjure with in that part of the county.</span>
   <span id="f000076">He had entertained the school-children,</span>
   <span id="f000077">he had thrown his grounds open to visitors,</span>
   <span id="f000078">he had subscribed to charities – in short,</span>
   <span id="f000079">his benevolence had been so universal that my driver could only account for it on the supposition that he had parliamentary ambitions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">My attention was drawn away from my driver’s panegyric by the appearance of a very beautiful bird which settled on a telegraph-post beside the road.</span>
   <span id="f000081">At first I thought that it was a jay,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but it was larger,</span>
   <span id="f000083">with a brighter plumage.</span>
   <span id="f000084">The driver accounted for its presence at once by saying that it belonged to the very man whom we were about to visit.</span>
   <span id="f000085">It seems that the acclimatization of foreign creatures was one of his hobbies,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and that he had brought with him from Brazil a number of birds and beasts which he was endeavouring to rear in England.</span>
   <span id="f000087">When once we had passed the gates of Greylands Park we had ample evidence of this taste of his.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Some small spotted deer,</span>
   <span id="f000089">a curious wild pig known,</span>
   <span id="f000090">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000091">as a peccary,</span>
   <span id="f000092">a gorgeously feathered oriole,</span>
   <span id="f000093">some sort of armadillo,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and a singular lumbering in-toed beast like a very fat badger,</span>
   <span id="f000095">were among the creatures which I observed as we drove along the winding avenue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">Mr.&#160;Everard King,</span>
   <span id="f000097">my unknown cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000098">was standing in person upon the steps of his house,</span>
   <span id="f000099">for he had seen us in the distance,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and guessed that it was I.</span>
   <span id="f000101">His appearance was very homely and benevolent,</span>
   <span id="f000102">short and stout,</span>
   <span id="f000103">forty-five years old,</span>
   <span id="f000104">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000105">with a round,</span>
   <span id="f000106">good-humoured face,</span>
   <span id="f000107">burned brown with the tropical sun,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and shot with a thousand wrinkles.</span>
   <span id="f000109">He wore white linen clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000110">in true planter style,</span>
   <span id="f000111">with a cigar between his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and a large Panama hat upon the back of his head.</span>
   <span id="f000113">It was such a figure as one associates with a verandahed bungalow,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and it looked curiously out of place in front of this broad,</span>
   <span id="f000115">stone English mansion,</span>
   <span id="f000116">with its solid wings and its Palladio pillars before the doorway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“My dear!” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000118">glancing over his shoulder;</span>
   <span id="f000119">“my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000120">here is our guest!</span>
   <span id="f000121">Welcome,</span>
   <span id="f000122">welcome to Greylands!</span>
   <span id="f000123">I am delighted to make your acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f000124">Cousin Marshall,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and I take it as a great compliment that you should honour this sleepy little country place with your presence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">Nothing could be more hearty than his manner,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and he set me at my ease in an instant.</span>
   <span id="f000128">But it needed all his cordiality to atone for the frigidity and even rudeness of his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000129">a tall,</span>
   <span id="f000130">haggard woman,</span>
   <span id="f000131">who came forward at his summons.</span>
   <span id="f000132">She was,</span>
   <span id="f000133">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000134">of Brazilian extraction,</span>
   <span id="f000135">though she spoke excellent English,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and I excused her manners on the score of her ignorance of our customs.</span>
   <span id="f000137">She did not attempt to conceal,</span>
   <span id="f000138">however,</span>
   <span id="f000139">either then or afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000140">that I was no very welcome visitor at Greylands Court.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Her actual words were,</span>
   <span id="f000142">as a rule,</span>
   <span id="f000143">courteous,</span>
   <span id="f000144">but she was the possessor of a pair of particularly expressive dark eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and I read in them very clearly from the first that she heartily wished me back in London once more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">However,</span>
   <span id="f000147">my debts were too pressing and my designs upon my wealthy relative were too vital for me to allow them to be upset by the ill-temper of his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000148">so I disregarded her coldness and reciprocated the extreme cordiality of his welcome.</span>
   <span id="f000149">No pains had been spared by him to make me comfortable.</span>
   <span id="f000150">My room was a charming one.</span>
   <span id="f000151">He implored me to tell him anything which could add to my happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000152">It was on the tip of my tongue to inform him that a blank cheque would materially help towards that end,</span>
   <span id="f000153">but I felt that it might be premature in the present state of our acquaintance.</span>
   <span id="f000154">The dinner was excellent,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and as we sat together afterwards over his Havanas and coffee,</span>
   <span id="f000156">which later he told me was specially prepared upon his own plantation,</span>
   <span id="f000157">it seemed to me that all my driver’s eulogies were justified,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and that I had never met a more large-hearted and hospitable man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">But,</span>
   <span id="f000160">in spite of his cheery good nature,</span>
   <span id="f000161">he was a man with a strong will and a fiery temper of his own.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Of this I had an example upon the following morning.</span>
   <span id="f000163">The curious aversion which Mrs.&#160;Everard King had conceived towards me was so strong,</span>
   <span id="f000164">that her manner at breakfast was almost offensive.</span>
   <span id="f000165">But her meaning became unmistakable when her husband had quitted the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“The best train in the day is at twelve-fifteen,” said she.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“But I was not thinking of going today,” I answered,</span>
   <span id="f000168">frankly – perhaps even defiantly,</span>
   <span id="f000169">for I was determined not to be driven out by this woman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000171">if it rests with you – ” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and stopped with a most insolent expression in her eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“I am sure,” I answered,</span>
   <span id="f000174">“that Mr.&#160;Everard King would tell me if I were outstaying my welcome.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“What’s this?</span>
   <span id="f000176">What’s this?” said a voice,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and there he was in the room.</span>
   <span id="f000178">He had overheard my last words,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and a glance at our faces had told him the rest.</span>
   <span id="f000180">In an instant his chubby,</span>
   <span id="f000181">cheery face set into an expression of absolute ferocity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Might I trouble you to walk outside,</span>
   <span id="f000183">Marshall?” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000184">(I may mention that my own name is Marshall King.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">He closed the door behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000187">for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000188">I heard him talking in a low voice of concentrated passion to his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000189">This gross breach of hospitality had evidently hit upon his tenderest point.</span>
   <span id="f000190">I am no eavesdropper,</span>
   <span id="f000191">so I walked out on to the lawn.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Presently I heard a hurried step behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and there was the lady,</span>
   <span id="f000194">her face pale with excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and her eyes red with tears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“My husband has asked me to apologize to you,</span>
   <span id="f000197">Mr.&#160;Marshall King,” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000198">standing with downcast eyes before me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“Please do not say another word,</span>
   <span id="f000200">Mrs.&#160;King.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">Her dark eyes suddenly blazed out at me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“You fool!” she hissed,</span>
   <span id="f000203">with frantic vehemence,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and turning on her heel swept back to the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">The insult was so outrageous,</span>
   <span id="f000206">so insufferable,</span>
   <span id="f000207">that I could only stand staring after her in bewilderment.</span>
   <span id="f000208">I was still there when my host joined me.</span>
   <span id="f000209">He was his cheery,</span>
   <span id="f000210">chubby self once more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“I hope that my wife has apologized for her foolish remarks,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000213">yes – yes,</span>
   <span id="f000214">certainly!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">He put his hand through my arm and walked with me up and down the lawn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“You must not take it seriously,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000217">“It would grieve me inexpressibly if you curtailed your visit by one hour.</span>
   <span id="f000218">The fact is – there is no reason why there should be any concealment between relatives – that my poor dear wife is incredibly jealous.</span>
   <span id="f000219">She hates that anyone – male or female – should for an instant come between us.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Her ideal is a desert island and an eternal tete-a-tete.</span>
   <span id="f000221">That gives you the clue to her actions,</span>
   <span id="f000222">which are,</span>
   <span id="f000223">I confess,</span>
   <span id="f000224">upon this particular point,</span>
   <span id="f000225">not very far removed from mania.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Tell me that you will think no more of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000228">no;</span>
   <span id="f000229">certainly not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">“Then light this cigar and come round with me and see my little menagerie.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">The whole afternoon was occupied by this inspection,</span>
   <span id="f000232">which included all the birds,</span>
   <span id="f000233">beasts,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and even reptiles which he had imported.</span>
   <span id="f000235">Some were free,</span>
   <span id="f000236">some in cages,</span>
   <span id="f000237">a few actually in the house.</span>
   <span id="f000238">He spoke with enthusiasm of his successes and his failures,</span>
   <span id="f000239">his births and his deaths,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and he would cry out in his delight,</span>
   <span id="f000241">like a schoolboy,</span>
   <span id="f000242">when,</span>
   <span id="f000243">as we walked,</span>
   <span id="f000244">some gaudy bird would flutter up from the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000245">or some curious beast slink into the cover.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Finally he led me down a corridor which extended from one wing of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000247">At the end of this there was a heavy door with a sliding shutter in it,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and beside it there projected from the wall an iron handle attached to a wheel and a drum.</span>
   <span id="f000249">A line of stout bars extended across the passage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“I am about to show you the jewel of my collection,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000251">“There is only one other specimen in Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000252">now that the Rotterdam cub is dead.</span>
   <span id="f000253">It is a Brazilian cat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“But how does that differ from any other cat?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“You will soon see that,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000256">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000257">“Will you kindly draw that shutter and look through?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">I did so,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and found that I was gazing into a large,</span>
   <span id="f000260">empty room,</span>
   <span id="f000261">with stone flags,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and small,</span>
   <span id="f000263">barred windows upon the farther wall.</span>
   <span id="f000264">In the centre of this room,</span>
   <span id="f000265">lying in the middle of a golden patch of sunlight,</span>
   <span id="f000266">there was stretched a huge creature,</span>
   <span id="f000267">as large as a tiger,</span>
   <span id="f000268">but as black and sleek as ebony.</span>
   <span id="f000269">It was simply a very enormous and very well-kept black cat,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and it cuddled up and basked in that yellow pool of light exactly as a cat would do.</span>
   <span id="f000271">It was so graceful,</span>
   <span id="f000272">so sinewy,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and so gently and smoothly diabolical,</span>
   <span id="f000274">that I could not take my eyes from the opening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“Isn’t he splendid?” said my host,</span>
   <span id="f000276">enthusiastically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Glorious!</span>
   <span id="f000278">I never saw such a noble creature.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">“Some people call it a black puma,</span>
   <span id="f000280">but really it is not a puma at all.</span>
   <span id="f000281">That fellow is nearly eleven feet from tail to tip.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Four years ago he was a little ball of black fluff,</span>
   <span id="f000283">with two yellow eyes staring out of it.</span>
   <span id="f000284">He was sold me as a new-born cub up in the wild country at the head-waters of the Rio Negro.</span>
   <span id="f000285">They speared his mother to death after she had killed a dozen of them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“They are ferocious,</span>
   <span id="f000287">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“The most absolutely treacherous and bloodthirsty creatures upon earth.</span>
   <span id="f000289">You talk about a Brazilian cat to an up-country Indian,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and see him get the jumps.</span>
   <span id="f000291">They prefer humans to game.</span>
   <span id="f000292">This fellow has never tasted living blood yet,</span>
   <span id="f000293">but when he does he will be a terror.</span>
   <span id="f000294">At present he won’t stand anyone but me in his den.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Even Baldwin,</span>
   <span id="f000296">the groom,</span>
   <span id="f000297">dare not go near him.</span>
   <span id="f000298">As to me,</span>
   <span id="f000299">I am his mother and father in one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">As he spoke he suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000301">to my astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f000302">opened the door and slipped in,</span>
   <span id="f000303">closing it instantly behind him.</span>
   <span id="f000304">At the sound of his voice the huge,</span>
   <span id="f000305">lithe creature rose,</span>
   <span id="f000306">yawned and rubbed its round,</span>
   <span id="f000307">black head affectionately against his side,</span>
   <span id="f000308">while he patted and fondled it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000310">Tommy,</span>
   <span id="f000311">into your cage!” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">The monstrous cat walked over to one side of the room and coiled itself up under a grating.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Everard King came out,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and taking the iron handle which I have mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000315">he began to turn it.</span>
   <span id="f000316">As he did so the line of bars in the corridor began to pass through a slot in the wall and closed up the front of this grating,</span>
   <span id="f000317">so as to make an effective cage.</span>
   <span id="f000318">When it was in position he opened the door once more and invited me into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000319">which was heavy with the pungent,</span>
   <span id="f000320">musty smell peculiar to the great carnivora.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“That’s how we work it,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000322">“We give him the run of the room for exercise,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and then at night we put him in his cage.</span>
   <span id="f000324">You can let him out by turning the handle from the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000325">or you can,</span>
   <span id="f000326">as you have seen,</span>
   <span id="f000327">coop him up in the same way.</span>
   <span id="f000328">No,</span>
   <span id="f000329">no,</span>
   <span id="f000330">you should not do that!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">I had put my hand between the bars to pat the glossy,</span>
   <span id="f000332">heaving flank.</span>
   <span id="f000333">He pulled it back,</span>
   <span id="f000334">with a serious face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“I assure you that he is not safe.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Don’t imagine that because I can take liberties with him anyone else can.</span>
   <span id="f000337">He is very exclusive in his friends – aren’t you,</span>
   <span id="f000338">Tommy?</span>
   <span id="f000339">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000340">he hears his lunch coming to him!</span>
   <span id="f000341">Don’t you,</span>
   <span id="f000342">boy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">A step sounded in the stone-flagged passage,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and the creature had sprung to his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and was pacing up and down the narrow cage,</span>
   <span id="f000346">his yellow eyes gleaming,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and his scarlet tongue rippling and quivering over the white line of his jagged teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000348">A groom entered with a coarse joint upon a tray,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and thrust it through the bars to him.</span>
   <span id="f000350">He pounced lightly upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000351">carried it off to the corner,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000353">holding it between his paws,</span>
   <span id="f000354">tore and wrenched at it,</span>
   <span id="f000355">raising his bloody muzzle every now and then to look at us.</span>
   <span id="f000356">It was a malignant and yet fascinating sight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“You can’t wonder that I am fond of him,</span>
   <span id="f000358">can you?” said my host,</span>
   <span id="f000359">as we left the room,</span>
   <span id="f000360">“especially when you consider that I have had the rearing of him.</span>
   <span id="f000361">It was no joke bringing him over from the centre of South America;</span>
   <span id="f000362">but here he is safe and sound – and,</span>
   <span id="f000363">as I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000364">far the most perfect specimen in Europe.</span>
   <span id="f000365">The people at the Zoo are dying to have him,</span>
   <span id="f000366">but I really can’t part with him.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000368">I think that I have inflicted my hobby upon you long enough,</span>
   <span id="f000369">so we cannot do better than follow Tommy’s example,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and go to our lunch.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">My South American relative was so engrossed by his grounds and their curious occupants,</span>
   <span id="f000372">that I hardly gave him credit at first for having any interests outside them.</span>
   <span id="f000373">That he had some,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and pressing ones,</span>
   <span id="f000375">was soon borne in upon me by the number of telegrams which he received.</span>
   <span id="f000376">They arrived at all hours,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and were always opened by him with the utmost eagerness and anxiety upon his face.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Sometimes I imagined that it must be the Turf,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and sometimes the Stock Exchange,</span>
   <span id="f000380">but certainly he had some very urgent business going forwards which was not transacted upon the Downs of Suffolk.</span>
   <span id="f000381">During the six days of my visit he had never fewer than three or four telegrams a day,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and sometimes as many as seven or eight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">I had occupied these six days so well,</span>
   <span id="f000384">that by the end of them I had succeeded in getting upon the most cordial terms with my cousin.</span>
   <span id="f000385">Every night we had sat up late in the billiard-room,</span>
   <span id="f000386">he telling me the most extraordinary stories of his adventures in America – stories so desperate and reckless,</span>
   <span id="f000387">that I could hardly associate them with the brown little,</span>
   <span id="f000388">chubby man before me.</span>
   <span id="f000389">In return,</span>
   <span id="f000390">I ventured upon some of my own reminiscences of London life,</span>
   <span id="f000391">which interested him so much,</span>
   <span id="f000392">that he vowed he would come up to Grosvenor Mansions and stay with me.</span>
   <span id="f000393">He was anxious to see the faster side of city life,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000395">though I say it,</span>
   <span id="f000396">he could not have chosen a more competent guide.</span>
   <span id="f000397">It was not until the last day of my visit that I ventured to approach that which was on my mind.</span>
   <span id="f000398">I told him frankly about my pecuniary difficulties and my impending ruin,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and I asked his advice – though I hoped for something more solid.</span>
   <span id="f000400">He listened attentively,</span>
   <span id="f000401">puffing hard at his cigar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“But surely,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000403">“you are the heir of our relative,</span>
   <span id="f000404">Lord Southerton?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“I have every reason to believe so,</span>
   <span id="f000406">but he would never make me any allowance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000408">no,</span>
   <span id="f000409">I have heard of his miserly ways.</span>
   <span id="f000410">My poor Marshall,</span>
   <span id="f000411">your position has been a very hard one.</span>
   <span id="f000412">By the way,</span>
   <span id="f000413">have you heard any news of Lord Southerton’s health lately?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“He has always been in a critical condition ever since my childhood.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“Exactly – a creaking hinge,</span>
   <span id="f000416">if ever there was one.</span>
   <span id="f000417">Your inheritance may be a long way off.</span>
   <span id="f000418">Dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000419">how awkwardly situated you are!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000420">“I had some hopes,</span>
   <span id="f000421">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000422">that you,</span>
   <span id="f000423">knowing all the facts,</span>
   <span id="f000424">might be inclined to advance – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“Don’t say another word,</span>
   <span id="f000426">my dear boy,” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000427">with the utmost cordiality;</span>
   <span id="f000428">“we shall talk it over tonight,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and I give you my word that whatever is in my power shall be done.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">I was not sorry that my visit was drawing to a close,</span>
   <span id="f000431">for it is unpleasant to feel that there is one person in the house who eagerly desires your departure.</span>
   <span id="f000432">Mrs.&#160;King’s sallow face and forbidding eyes had become more and more hateful to me.</span>
   <span id="f000433">She was no longer actively rude – her fear of her husband prevented her – but she pushed her insane jealousy to the extent of ignoring me,</span>
   <span id="f000434">never addressing me,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and in every way making my stay at Greylands as uncomfortable as she could.</span>
   <span id="f000436">So offensive was her manner during that last day,</span>
   <span id="f000437">that I should certainly have left had it not been for that interview with my host in the evening which would,</span>
   <span id="f000438">I hoped,</span>
   <span id="f000439">retrieve my broken fortunes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">It was very late when it occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000441">for my relative,</span>
   <span id="f000442">who had been receiving even more telegrams than usual during the day,</span>
   <span id="f000443">went off to his study after dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and only emerged when the household had retired to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000445">I heard him go round locking the doors,</span>
   <span id="f000446">as custom was of a night,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and finally he joined me in the billiard-room.</span>
   <span id="f000448">His stout figure was wrapped in a dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and he wore a pair of red Turkish slippers without any heels.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Settling down into an arm-chair,</span>
   <span id="f000451">he brewed himself a glass of grog,</span>
   <span id="f000452">in which I could not help noticing that the whisky considerably predominated over the water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“My word!” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000454">“what a night!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">It was,</span>
   <span id="f000456">indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000457">The wind was howling and screaming round the house,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and the latticed windows rattled and shook as if they were coming in.</span>
   <span id="f000459">The glow of the yellow lamps and the flavour of our cigars seemed the brighter and more fragrant for the contrast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000461">my boy,” said my host,</span>
   <span id="f000462">“we have the house and the night to ourselves.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Let me have an idea of how your affairs stand,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and I will see what can be done to set them in order.</span>
   <span id="f000465">I wish to hear every detail.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">Thus encouraged,</span>
   <span id="f000467">I entered into a long exposition,</span>
   <span id="f000468">in which all my tradesmen and creditors from my landlord to my valet,</span>
   <span id="f000469">figured in turn.</span>
   <span id="f000470">I had notes in my pocket-book,</span>
   <span id="f000471">and I marshalled my facts,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and gave,</span>
   <span id="f000473">I flatter myself,</span>
   <span id="f000474">a very businesslike statement of my own unbusinesslike ways and lamentable position.</span>
   <span id="f000475">I was depressed,</span>
   <span id="f000476">however,</span>
   <span id="f000477">to notice that my companion’s eyes were vacant and his attention elsewhere.</span>
   <span id="f000478">When he did occasionally throw out a remark it was so entirely perfunctory and pointless,</span>
   <span id="f000479">that I was sure he had not in the least followed my remarks.</span>
   <span id="f000480">Every now and then he roused himself and put on some show of interest,</span>
   <span id="f000481">asking me to repeat or to explain more fully,</span>
   <span id="f000482">but it was always to sink once more into the same brown study.</span>
   <span id="f000483">At last he rose and threw the end of his cigar into the grate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“I’ll tell you what,</span>
   <span id="f000485">my boy,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000486">“I never had a head for figures,</span>
   <span id="f000487">so you will excuse me.</span>
   <span id="f000488">You must jot it all down upon paper,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and let me have a note of the amount.</span>
   <span id="f000490">I’ll understand it when I see it in black and white.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">The proposal was encouraging.</span>
   <span id="f000492">I promised to do so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000493">“And now it’s time we were in bed.</span>
   <span id="f000494">By Jove,</span>
   <span id="f000495">there’s one o’clock striking in the hall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">The tingling of the chiming clock broke through the deep roar of the gale.</span>
   <span id="f000497">The wind was sweeping past with the rush of a great river.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000498">“I must see my cat before I go to bed,” said my host.</span>
   <span id="f000499">“A high wind excites him.</span>
   <span id="f000500">Will you come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">“Certainly,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">“Then tread softly and don’t speak,</span>
   <span id="f000503">for everyone is asleep.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">We passed quietly down the lamp-lit Persian-rugged hall,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and through the door at the farther end.</span>
   <span id="f000506">All was dark in the stone corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000507">but a stable lantern hung on a hook,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and my host took it down and lit it.</span>
   <span id="f000509">There was no grating visible in the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000510">so I knew that the beast was in its cage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“Come in!” said my relative,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and opened the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">A deep growling as we entered showed that the storm had really excited the creature.</span>
   <span id="f000514">In the flickering light of the lantern,</span>
   <span id="f000515">we saw it,</span>
   <span id="f000516">a huge black mass coiled in the corner of its den and throwing a squat,</span>
   <span id="f000517">uncouth shadow upon the whitewashed wall.</span>
   <span id="f000518">Its tail switched angrily among the straw.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">“Poor Tommy is not in the best of tempers,” said Everard King,</span>
   <span id="f000520">holding up the lantern and looking in at him.</span>
   <span id="f000521">“What a black devil he looks,</span>
   <span id="f000522">doesn’t he?</span>
   <span id="f000523">I must give him a little supper to put him in a better humour.</span>
   <span id="f000524">Would you mind holding the lantern for a moment?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000525">I took it from his hand and he stepped to the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“His larder is just outside here,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000527">“You will excuse me for an instant won’t you?” He passed out,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and the door shut with a sharp metallic click behind him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">That hard crisp sound made my heart stand still.</span>
   <span id="f000530">A sudden wave of terror passed over me.</span>
   <span id="f000531">A vague perception of some monstrous treachery turned me cold.</span>
   <span id="f000532">I sprang to the door,</span>
   <span id="f000533">but there was no handle upon the inner side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">“Here!” I cried.</span>
   <span id="f000535">“Let me out!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">“All right!</span>
   <span id="f000537">Don’t make a row!” said my host from the passage.</span>
   <span id="f000538">“You’ve got the light all right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000540">but I don’t care about being locked in alone like this.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">“Don’t you?” I heard his hearty,</span>
   <span id="f000542">chuckling laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000543">“You won’t be alone long.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">“Let me out,</span>
   <span id="f000545">sir!” I repeated angrily.</span>
   <span id="f000546">“I tell you I don’t allow practical jokes of this sort.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">“Practical is the word,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000548">with another hateful chuckle.</span>
   <span id="f000549">And then suddenly I heard,</span>
   <span id="f000550">amidst the roar of the storm,</span>
   <span id="f000551">the creak and whine of the winch-handle turning and the rattle of the grating as it passed through the slot.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Great God,</span>
   <span id="f000553">he was letting loose the Brazilian cat!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">In the light of the lantern I saw the bars sliding slowly before me.</span>
   <span id="f000555">Already there was an opening a foot wide at the farther end.</span>
   <span id="f000556">With a scream I seized the last bar with my hands and pulled with the strength of a madman.</span>
   <span id="f000557">I WAS a madman with rage and horror.</span>
   <span id="f000558">For a minute or more I held the thing motionless.</span>
   <span id="f000559">I knew that he was straining with all his force upon the handle,</span>
   <span id="f000560">and that the leverage was sure to overcome me.</span>
   <span id="f000561">I gave inch by inch,</span>
   <span id="f000562">my feet sliding along the stones,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and all the time I begged and prayed this inhuman monster to save me from this horrible death.</span>
   <span id="f000564">I conjured him by his kinship.</span>
   <span id="f000565">I reminded him that I was his guest;</span>
   <span id="f000566">I begged to know what harm I had ever done him.</span>
   <span id="f000567">His only answers were the tugs and jerks upon the handle,</span>
   <span id="f000568">each of which,</span>
   <span id="f000569">in spite of all my struggles,</span>
   <span id="f000570">pulled another bar through the opening.</span>
   <span id="f000571">Clinging and clutching,</span>
   <span id="f000572">I was dragged across the whole front of the cage,</span>
   <span id="f000573">until at last,</span>
   <span id="f000574">with aching wrists and lacerated fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000575">I gave up the hopeless struggle.</span>
   <span id="f000576">The grating clanged back as I released it,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and an instant later I heard the shuffle of the Turkish slippers in the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000578">and the slam of the distant door.</span>
   <span id="f000579">Then everything was silent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">The creature had never moved during this time.</span>
   <span id="f000581">He lay still in the corner,</span>
   <span id="f000582">and his tail had ceased switching.</span>
   <span id="f000583">This apparition of a man adhering to his bars and dragged screaming across him had apparently filled him with amazement.</span>
   <span id="f000584">I saw his great eyes staring steadily at me.</span>
   <span id="f000585">I had dropped the lantern when I seized the bars,</span>
   <span id="f000586">but it still burned upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and I made a movement to grasp it,</span>
   <span id="f000588">with some idea that its light might protect me.</span>
   <span id="f000589">But the instant I moved,</span>
   <span id="f000590">the beast gave a deep and menacing growl.</span>
   <span id="f000591">I stopped and stood still,</span>
   <span id="f000592">quivering with fear in every limb.</span>
   <span id="f000593">The cat</span>
   <span id="f000594">(if one may call so fearful a creature by so homely a name)</span>
   <span id="f000595">was not more than ten feet from me.</span>
   <span id="f000596">The eyes glimmered like two disks of phosphorus in the darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000597">They appalled and yet fascinated me.</span>
   <span id="f000598">I could not take my own eyes from them.</span>
   <span id="f000599">Nature plays strange tricks with us at such moments of intensity,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and those glimmering lights waxed and waned with a steady rise and fall.</span>
   <span id="f000601">Sometimes they seemed to be tiny points of extreme brilliancy – little electric sparks in the black obscurity – then they would widen and widen until all that corner of the room was filled with their shifting and sinister light.</span>
   <span id="f000602">And then suddenly they went out altogether.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">The beast had closed its eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000604">I do not know whether there may be any truth in the old idea of the dominance of the human gaze,</span>
   <span id="f000605">or whether the huge cat was simply drowsy,</span>
   <span id="f000606">but the fact remains that,</span>
   <span id="f000607">far from showing any symptom of attacking me,</span>
   <span id="f000608">it simply rested its sleek,</span>
   <span id="f000609">black head upon its huge forepaws and seemed to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000610">I stood,</span>
   <span id="f000611">fearing to move lest I should rouse it into malignant life once more.</span>
   <span id="f000612">But at least I was able to think clearly now that the baleful eyes were off me.</span>
   <span id="f000613">Here I was shut up for the night with the ferocious beast.</span>
   <span id="f000614">My own instincts,</span>
   <span id="f000615">to say nothing of the words of the plausible villain who laid this trap for me,</span>
   <span id="f000616">warned me that the animal was as savage as its master.</span>
   <span id="f000617">How could I stave it off until morning?</span>
   <span id="f000618">The door was hopeless,</span>
   <span id="f000619">and so were the narrow,</span>
   <span id="f000620">barred windows.</span>
   <span id="f000621">There was no shelter anywhere in the bare,</span>
   <span id="f000622">stone-flagged room.</span>
   <span id="f000623">To cry for assistance was absurd.</span>
   <span id="f000624">I knew that this den was an outhouse,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and that the corridor which connected it with the house was at least a hundred feet long.</span>
   <span id="f000626">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000627">with the gale thundering outside,</span>
   <span id="f000628">my cries were not likely to be heard.</span>
   <span id="f000629">I had only my own courage and my own wits to trust to.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000631">with a fresh wave of horror,</span>
   <span id="f000632">my eyes fell upon the lantern.</span>
   <span id="f000633">The candle had burned low,</span>
   <span id="f000634">and was already beginning to gutter.</span>
   <span id="f000635">In ten minutes it would be out.</span>
   <span id="f000636">I had only ten minutes then in which to do something,</span>
   <span id="f000637">for I felt that if I were once left in the dark with that fearful beast I should be incapable of action.</span>
   <span id="f000638">The very thought of it paralysed me.</span>
   <span id="f000639">I cast my despairing eyes round this chamber of death,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and they rested upon one spot which seemed to promise I will not say safety,</span>
   <span id="f000641">but less immediate and imminent danger than the open floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000642">I have said that the cage had a top as well as a front,</span>
   <span id="f000643">and this top was left standing when the front was wound through the slot in the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000644">It consisted of bars at a few inches’ interval,</span>
   <span id="f000645">with stout wire netting between,</span>
   <span id="f000646">and it rested upon a strong stanchion at each end.</span>
   <span id="f000647">It stood now as a great barred canopy over the crouching figure in the corner.</span>
   <span id="f000648">The space between this iron shelf and the roof may have been from two or three feet.</span>
   <span id="f000649">If I could only get up there,</span>
   <span id="f000650">squeezed in between bars and ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f000651">I should have only one vulnerable side.</span>
   <span id="f000652">I should be safe from below,</span>
   <span id="f000653">from behind,</span>
   <span id="f000654">and from each side.</span>
   <span id="f000655">Only on the open face of it could I be attacked.</span>
   <span id="f000656">There,</span>
   <span id="f000657">it is true,</span>
   <span id="f000658">I had no protection whatever;</span>
   <span id="f000659">but at least,</span>
   <span id="f000660">I should be out of the brute’s path when he began to pace about his den.</span>
   <span id="f000661">He would have to come out of his way to reach me.</span>
   <span id="f000662">It was now or never,</span>
   <span id="f000663">for if once the light were out it would be impossible.</span>
   <span id="f000664">With a gulp in my throat I sprang up,</span>
   <span id="f000665">seized the iron edge of the top,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and swung myself panting on to it.</span>
   <span id="f000667">I writhed in face downwards,</span>
   <span id="f000668">and found myself looking straight into the terrible eyes and yawning jaws of the cat.</span>
   <span id="f000669">Its fetid breath came up into my face like the steam from some foul pot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000670">It appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000671">however,</span>
   <span id="f000672">to be rather curious than angry.</span>
   <span id="f000673">With a sleek ripple of its long,</span>
   <span id="f000674">black back it rose,</span>
   <span id="f000675">stretched itself,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and then rearing itself on its hind legs,</span>
   <span id="f000677">with one forepaw against the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000678">it raised the other,</span>
   <span id="f000679">and drew its claws across the wire meshes beneath me.</span>
   <span id="f000680">One sharp,</span>
   <span id="f000681">white hook tore through my trousers – for I may mention that I was still in evening dress – and dug a furrow in my knee.</span>
   <span id="f000682">It was not meant as an attack,</span>
   <span id="f000683">but rather as an experiment,</span>
   <span id="f000684">for upon my giving a sharp cry of pain he dropped down again,</span>
   <span id="f000685">and springing lightly into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000686">he began walking swiftly round it,</span>
   <span id="f000687">looking up every now and again in my direction.</span>
   <span id="f000688">For my part I shuffled backwards until I lay with my back against the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000689">screwing myself into the smallest space possible.</span>
   <span id="f000690">The farther I got the more difficult it was for him to attack me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">He seemed more excited now that he had begun to move about,</span>
   <span id="f000692">and he ran swiftly and noiselessly round and round the den,</span>
   <span id="f000693">passing continually underneath the iron couch upon which I lay.</span>
   <span id="f000694">It was wonderful to see so great a bulk passing like a shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000695">with hardly the softest thudding of velvety pads.</span>
   <span id="f000696">The candle was burning low – so low that I could hardly see the creature.</span>
   <span id="f000697">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000698">with a last flare and splutter it went out altogether.</span>
   <span id="f000699">I was alone with the cat in the dark!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000700">It helps one to face a danger when one knows that one has done all that possibly can be done.</span>
   <span id="f000701">There is nothing for it then but to quietly await the result.</span>
   <span id="f000702">In this case,</span>
   <span id="f000703">there was no chance of safety anywhere except the precise spot where I was.</span>
   <span id="f000704">I stretched myself out,</span>
   <span id="f000705">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000706">and lay silently,</span>
   <span id="f000707">almost breathlessly,</span>
   <span id="f000708">hoping that the beast might forget my presence if I did nothing to remind him.</span>
   <span id="f000709">I reckoned that it must already be two o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000710">At four it would be full dawn.</span>
   <span id="f000711">I had not more than two hours to wait for daylight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">Outside,</span>
   <span id="f000713">the storm was still raging,</span>
   <span id="f000714">and the rain lashed continually against the little windows.</span>
   <span id="f000715">Inside,</span>
   <span id="f000716">the poisonous and fetid air was overpowering.</span>
   <span id="f000717">I could neither hear nor see the cat.</span>
   <span id="f000718">I tried to think about other things – but only one had power enough to draw my mind from my terrible position.</span>
   <span id="f000719">That was the contemplation of my cousin’s villainy,</span>
   <span id="f000720">his unparalleled hypocrisy,</span>
   <span id="f000721">his malignant hatred of me.</span>
   <span id="f000722">Beneath that cheerful face there lurked the spirit of a mediaeval assassin.</span>
   <span id="f000723">And as I thought of it I saw more clearly how cunningly the thing had been arranged.</span>
   <span id="f000724">He had apparently gone to bed with the others.</span>
   <span id="f000725">No doubt he had his witness to prove it.</span>
   <span id="f000726">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000727">unknown to them,</span>
   <span id="f000728">he had slipped down,</span>
   <span id="f000729">had lured me into his den and abandoned me.</span>
   <span id="f000730">His story would be so simple.</span>
   <span id="f000731">He had left me to finish my cigar in the billiard-room.</span>
   <span id="f000732">I had gone down on my own account to have a last look at the cat.</span>
   <span id="f000733">I had entered the room without observing that the cage was opened,</span>
   <span id="f000734">and I had been caught.</span>
   <span id="f000735">How could such a crime be brought home to him?</span>
   <span id="f000736">Suspicion,</span>
   <span id="f000737">perhaps – but proof,</span>
   <span id="f000738">never!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">How slowly those dreadful two hours went by!</span>
   <span id="f000740">Once I heard a low,</span>
   <span id="f000741">rasping sound,</span>
   <span id="f000742">which I took to be the creature licking its own fur.</span>
   <span id="f000743">Several times those greenish eyes gleamed at me through the darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000744">but never in a fixed stare,</span>
   <span id="f000745">and my hopes grew stronger that my presence had been forgotten or ignored.</span>
   <span id="f000746">At last the least faint glimmer of light came through the windows – I first dimly saw them as two grey squares upon the black wall,</span>
   <span id="f000747">then grey turned to white,</span>
   <span id="f000748">and I could see my terrible companion once more.</span>
   <span id="f000749">And he,</span>
   <span id="f000750">alas,</span>
   <span id="f000751">could see me!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">It was evident to me at once that he was in a much more dangerous and aggressive mood than when I had seen him last.</span>
   <span id="f000753">The cold of the morning had irritated him,</span>
   <span id="f000754">and he was hungry as well.</span>
   <span id="f000755">With a continual growl he paced swiftly up and down the side of the room which was farthest from my refuge,</span>
   <span id="f000756">his whiskers bristling angrily,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and his tail switching and lashing.</span>
   <span id="f000758">As he turned at the corners his savage eyes always looked upwards at me with a dreadful menace.</span>
   <span id="f000759">I knew then that he meant to kill me.</span>
   <span id="f000760">Yet I found myself even at that moment admiring the sinuous grace of the devilish thing,</span>
   <span id="f000761">its long,</span>
   <span id="f000762">undulating,</span>
   <span id="f000763">rippling movements,</span>
   <span id="f000764">the gloss of its beautiful flanks,</span>
   <span id="f000765">the vivid,</span>
   <span id="f000766">palpitating scarlet of the glistening tongue which hung from the jet-black muzzle.</span>
   <span id="f000767">And all the time that deep,</span>
   <span id="f000768">threatening growl was rising and rising in an unbroken crescendo.</span>
   <span id="f000769">I knew that the crisis was at hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000770">It was a miserable hour to meet such a death – so cold,</span>
   <span id="f000771">so comfortless,</span>
   <span id="f000772">shivering in my light dress clothes upon this gridiron of torment upon which I was stretched.</span>
   <span id="f000773">I tried to brace myself to it,</span>
   <span id="f000774">to raise my soul above it,</span>
   <span id="f000775">and at the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000776">with the lucidity which comes to a perfectly desperate man,</span>
   <span id="f000777">I cast round for some possible means of escape.</span>
   <span id="f000778">One thing was clear to me.</span>
   <span id="f000779">If that front of the cage was only back in its position once more,</span>
   <span id="f000780">I could find a sure refuge behind it.</span>
   <span id="f000781">Could I possibly pull it back?</span>
   <span id="f000782">I hardly dared to move for fear of bringing the creature upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000783">Slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000784">very slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000785">I put my hand forward until it grasped the edge of the front,</span>
   <span id="f000786">the final bar which protruded through the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000787">To my surprise it came quite easily to my jerk.</span>
   <span id="f000788">Of course the difficulty of drawing it out arose from the fact that I was clinging to it.</span>
   <span id="f000789">I pulled again,</span>
   <span id="f000790">and three inches of it came through.</span>
   <span id="f000791">It ran apparently on wheels.</span>
   <span id="f000792">I pulled again …</span>
   <span id="f000793">and then the cat sprang!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">It was so quick,</span>
   <span id="f000795">so sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000796">that I never saw it happen.</span>
   <span id="f000797">I simply heard the savage snarl,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and in an instant afterwards the blazing yellow eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000799">the flattened black head with its red tongue and flashing teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000800">were within reach of me.</span>
   <span id="f000801">The impact of the creature shook the bars upon which I lay,</span>
   <span id="f000802">until I thought</span>
   <span id="f000803">(as far as I could think of anything at such a moment)</span>
   <span id="f000804">that they were coming down.</span>
   <span id="f000805">The cat swayed there for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000806">the head and front paws quite close to me,</span>
   <span id="f000807">the hind paws clawing to find a grip upon the edge of the grating.</span>
   <span id="f000808">I heard the claws rasping as they clung to the wire-netting,</span>
   <span id="f000809">and the breath of the beast made me sick.</span>
   <span id="f000810">But its bound had been miscalculated.</span>
   <span id="f000811">It could not retain its position.</span>
   <span id="f000812">Slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000813">grinning with rage,</span>
   <span id="f000814">and scratching madly at the bars,</span>
   <span id="f000815">it swung backwards and dropped heavily upon the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000816">With a growl it instantly faced round to me and crouched for another spring.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">I knew that the next few moments would decide my fate.</span>
   <span id="f000818">The creature had learned by experience.</span>
   <span id="f000819">It would not miscalculate again.</span>
   <span id="f000820">I must act promptly,</span>
   <span id="f000821">fearlessly,</span>
   <span id="f000822">if I were to have a chance for life.</span>
   <span id="f000823">In an instant I had formed my plan.</span>
   <span id="f000824">Pulling off my dress-coat,</span>
   <span id="f000825">I threw it down over the head of the beast.</span>
   <span id="f000826">At the same moment I dropped over the edge,</span>
   <span id="f000827">seized the end of the front grating,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and pulled it frantically out of the wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">It came more easily than I could have expected.</span>
   <span id="f000830">I rushed across the room,</span>
   <span id="f000831">bearing it with me;</span>
   <span id="f000832">but,</span>
   <span id="f000833">as I rushed,</span>
   <span id="f000834">the accident of my position put me upon the outer side.</span>
   <span id="f000835">Had it been the other way,</span>
   <span id="f000836">I might have come off scathless.</span>
   <span id="f000837">As it was,</span>
   <span id="f000838">there was a moment’s pause as I stopped it and tried to pass in through the opening which I had left.</span>
   <span id="f000839">That moment was enough to give time to the creature to toss off the coat with which I had blinded him and to spring upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000840">I hurled myself through the gap and pulled the rails to behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000841">but he seized my leg before I could entirely withdraw it.</span>
   <span id="f000842">One stroke of that huge paw tore off my calf as a shaving of wood curls off before a plane.</span>
   <span id="f000843">The next moment,</span>
   <span id="f000844">bleeding and fainting,</span>
   <span id="f000845">I was lying among the foul straw with a line of friendly bars between me and the creature which ramped so frantically against them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">Too wounded to move,</span>
   <span id="f000847">and too faint to be conscious of fear,</span>
   <span id="f000848">I could only lie,</span>
   <span id="f000849">more dead than alive,</span>
   <span id="f000850">and watch it.</span>
   <span id="f000851">It pressed its broad,</span>
   <span id="f000852">black chest against the bars and angled for me with its crooked paws as I have seen a kitten do before a mouse-trap.</span>
   <span id="f000853">It ripped my clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000854">but,</span>
   <span id="f000855">stretch as it would,</span>
   <span id="f000856">it could not quite reach me.</span>
   <span id="f000857">I have heard of the curious numbing effect produced by wounds from the great carnivora,</span>
   <span id="f000858">and now I was destined to experience it,</span>
   <span id="f000859">for I had lost all sense of personality,</span>
   <span id="f000860">and was as interested in the cat’s failure or success as if it were some game which I was watching.</span>
   <span id="f000861">And then gradually my mind drifted away into strange vague dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000862">always with that black face and red tongue coming back into them,</span>
   <span id="f000863">and so I lost myself in the nirvana of delirium,</span>
   <span id="f000864">the blessed relief of those who are too sorely tried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000865">Tracing the course of events afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000866">I conclude that I must have been insensible for about two hours.</span>
   <span id="f000867">What roused me to consciousness once more was that sharp metallic click which had been the precursor of my terrible experience.</span>
   <span id="f000868">It was the shooting back of the spring lock.</span>
   <span id="f000869">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000870">before my senses were clear enough to entirely apprehend what they saw,</span>
   <span id="f000871">I was aware of the round,</span>
   <span id="f000872">benevolent face of my cousin peering in through the open door.</span>
   <span id="f000873">What he saw evidently amazed him.</span>
   <span id="f000874">There was the cat crouching on the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000875">I was stretched upon my back in my shirt-sleeves within the cage,</span>
   <span id="f000876">my trousers torn to ribbons and a great pool of blood all round me.</span>
   <span id="f000877">I can see his amazed face now,</span>
   <span id="f000878">with the morning sunlight upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000879">He peered at me,</span>
   <span id="f000880">and peered again.</span>
   <span id="f000881">Then he closed the door behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000882">and advanced to the cage to see if I were really dead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000883">I cannot undertake to say what happened.</span>
   <span id="f000884">I was not in a fit state to witness or to chronicle such events.</span>
   <span id="f000885">I can only say that I was suddenly conscious that his face was away from me – that he was looking towards the animal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">“Good old Tommy!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000887">“Good old Tommy!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">Then he came near the bars,</span>
   <span id="f000889">with his back still towards me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">“Down,</span>
   <span id="f000891">you stupid beast!” he roared.</span>
   <span id="f000892">“Down,</span>
   <span id="f000893">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000894">Don’t you know your master?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000895">Suddenly even in my bemuddled brain a remembrance came of those words of his when he had said that the taste of blood would turn the cat into a fiend.</span>
   <span id="f000896">My blood had done it,</span>
   <span id="f000897">but he was to pay the price.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000898">“Get away!” he screamed.</span>
   <span id="f000899">“Get away,</span>
   <span id="f000900">you devil!</span>
   <span id="f000901">Baldwin!</span>
   <span id="f000902">Baldwin!</span>
   <span id="f000903">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000904">my God!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">And then I heard him fall,</span>
   <span id="f000906">and rise,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and fall again,</span>
   <span id="f000908">with a sound like the ripping of sacking.</span>
   <span id="f000909">His screams grew fainter until they were lost in the worrying snarl.</span>
   <span id="f000910">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000911">after I thought that he was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000912">I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000913">as in a nightmare,</span>
   <span id="f000914">a blinded,</span>
   <span id="f000915">tattered,</span>
   <span id="f000916">blood-soaked figure running wildly round the room – and that was the last glimpse which I had of him before I fainted once again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">I was many months in my recovery – in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000918">I cannot say that I have ever recovered,</span>
   <span id="f000919">for to the end of my days I shall carry a stick as a sign of my night with the Brazilian cat.</span>
   <span id="f000920">Baldwin,</span>
   <span id="f000921">the groom,</span>
   <span id="f000922">and the other servants could not tell what had occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000923">when,</span>
   <span id="f000924">drawn by the death-cries of their master,</span>
   <span id="f000925">they found me behind the bars,</span>
   <span id="f000926">and his remains – or what they afterwards discovered to be his remains – in the clutch of the creature which he had reared.</span>
   <span id="f000927">They stalled him off with hot irons,</span>
   <span id="f000928">and afterwards shot him through the loophole of the door before they could finally extricate me.</span>
   <span id="f000929">I was carried to my bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000930">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000931">under the roof of my would-be murderer,</span>
   <span id="f000932">I remained between life and death for several weeks.</span>
   <span id="f000933">They had sent for a surgeon from Clipton and a nurse from London,</span>
   <span id="f000934">and in a month I was able to be carried to the station,</span>
   <span id="f000935">and so conveyed back once more to Grosvenor Mansions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000936">I have one remembrance of that illness,</span>
   <span id="f000937">which might have been part of the ever-changing panorama conjured up by a delirious brain were it not so definitely fixed in my memory.</span>
   <span id="f000938">One night,</span>
   <span id="f000939">when the nurse was absent,</span>
   <span id="f000940">the door of my chamber opened,</span>
   <span id="f000941">and a tall woman in blackest mourning slipped into the room.</span>
   <span id="f000942">She came across to me,</span>
   <span id="f000943">and as she bent her sallow face I saw by the faint gleam of the night-light that it was the Brazilian woman whom my cousin had married.</span>
   <span id="f000944">She stared intently into my face,</span>
   <span id="f000945">and her expression was more kindly than I had ever seen it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000946">“Are you conscious?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000947">I feebly nodded – for I was still very weak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000948">“Well;</span>
   <span id="f000949">then,</span>
   <span id="f000950">I only wished to say to you that you have yourself to blame.</span>
   <span id="f000951">Did I not do all I could for you?</span>
   <span id="f000952">From the beginning I tried to drive you from the house.</span>
   <span id="f000953">By every means,</span>
   <span id="f000954">short of betraying my husband,</span>
   <span id="f000955">I tried to save you from him.</span>
   <span id="f000956">I knew that he had a reason for bringing you here.</span>
   <span id="f000957">I knew that he would never let you get away again.</span>
   <span id="f000958">No one knew him as I knew him,</span>
   <span id="f000959">who had suffered from him so often.</span>
   <span id="f000960">I did not dare to tell you all this.</span>
   <span id="f000961">He would have killed me.</span>
   <span id="f000962">But I did my best for you.</span>
   <span id="f000963">As things have turned out,</span>
   <span id="f000964">you have been the best friend that I have ever had.</span>
   <span id="f000965">You have set me free,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and I fancied that nothing but death would do that.</span>
   <span id="f000967">I am sorry if you are hurt,</span>
   <span id="f000968">but I cannot reproach myself.</span>
   <span id="f000969">I told you that you were a fool – and a fool you have been.” She crept out of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000970">the bitter,</span>
   <span id="f000971">singular woman,</span>
   <span id="f000972">and I was never destined to see her again.</span>
   <span id="f000973">With what remained from her husband’s property she went back to her native land,</span>
   <span id="f000974">and I have heard that she afterwards took the veil at Pernambuco.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000975">It was not until I had been back in London for some time that the doctors pronounced me to be well enough to do business.</span>
   <span id="f000976">It was not a very welcome permission to me,</span>
   <span id="f000977">for I feared that it would be the signal for an inrush of creditors;</span>
   <span id="f000978">but it was Summers,</span>
   <span id="f000979">my lawyer,</span>
   <span id="f000980">who first took advantage of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“I am very glad to see that your lordship is so much better,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000982">“I have been waiting a long time to offer my congratulations.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000983">“What do you mean,</span>
   <span id="f000984">Summers?</span>
   <span id="f000985">This is no time for joking.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000986">“I mean what I say,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000987">“You have been Lord Southerton for the last six weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000988">but we feared that it would retard your recovery if you were to learn it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000989">Lord Southerton!</span>
   <span id="f000990">One of the richest peers in England!</span>
   <span id="f000991">I could not believe my ears.</span>
   <span id="f000992">And then suddenly I thought of the time which had elapsed,</span>
   <span id="f000993">and how it coincided with my injuries.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000994">“Then Lord Southerton must have died about the same time that I was hurt?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000995">“His death occurred upon that very day.” Summers looked hard at me as I spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000996">and I am convinced – for he was a very shrewd fellow – that he had guessed the true state of the case.</span>
   <span id="f000997">He paused for a moment as if awaiting a confidence from me,</span>
   <span id="f000998">but I could not see what was to be gained by exposing such a family scandal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000999">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001000">a very curious coincidence,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f001001">with the same knowing look.</span>
   <span id="f001002">“Of course,</span>
   <span id="f001003">you are aware that your cousin Everard King was the next heir to the estates.</span>
   <span id="f001004">Now,</span>
   <span id="f001005">if it had been you instead of him who had been torn to pieces by this tiger,</span>
   <span id="f001006">or whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f001007">then of course he would have been Lord Southerton at the present moment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001008">“No doubt,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001009">“And he took such an interest in it,” said Summers.</span>
   <span id="f001010">“I happen to know that the late Lord Southerton’s valet was in his pay,</span>
   <span id="f001011">and that he used to have telegrams from him every few hours to tell him how he was getting on.</span>
   <span id="f001012">That would be about the time when you were down there.</span>
   <span id="f001013">Was it not strange that he should wish to be so well informed,</span>
   <span id="f001014">since he knew that he was not the direct heir?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001015">“Very strange,” said I.</span>
   <span id="f001016">“And now,</span>
   <span id="f001017">Summers,</span>
   <span id="f001018">if you will bring me my bills and a new cheque-book,</span>
   <span id="f001019">we will begin to get things into order.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

