<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title>Audio-eBooks: A Quick Introduction</title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="frontmatter foreword">
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle">Audio-eBooks: A Quick Introduction</h1>

   <p>
    In this foreword, I would like to introduce the concept of <strong>Audio-eBook</strong>
    and explain why <strong>ReadBeyond</strong> strongly advocates it.
   </p>

   <p>
    First, a practical definition.
    An <strong>Audio-eBook</strong> is
    the hybrid of a textual <strong>eBook</strong> and an <strong>audiobook</strong>
    (preferably read by a professional voice actor),
    where audio and text are <strong>synchronized</strong>.
   </p>

   <p>
    In the above definition, synchronization is essential,
    since it enables functions like the <strong>tap-to-play</strong> navigation of the text
    and the <strong>highlighting</strong> of the text fragment being narrated.
    These functions, once leveraged by a suitably designed reading system,
    create an <strong>intuitive</strong> and <strong>immersive experience</strong> of the book,
    providing huge benefits with respect to similar, but less practical,
    formats where the audio and the text channels are loosely coupled
    (e.g., (e)book + CD/MP3 bundles).
   </p>

   <p>
    Several scientific studies show that the activity of <strong>reading+listening</strong>,
    stimulating both the sighting and hearing areas of the brain,
    yields a deeper understanding of the information being acquired,
    with longer retention, when compared to just reading or just listening.
    A secondary effect is a significant improvement of the literacy skills of the learner.
    This effect is evident especially when
    the reading is performed by a <strong>professional narrator</strong>,
    and when this multi-modal reading technique is adopted by beginners,
    like <strong>kids</strong> or people learning a <strong>foreign language</strong>.
   </p>

   <p>
    Additionally, Audio-eBooks are known to be a valuable tool
    for people affected by <strong>reading disorders</strong> and <strong>dyslexia</strong>,
    since the double exposure and the synchronous highlighting make
    the connection between written words and their sound easier,
    and the tap-to-play function enables a beneficial tactile interaction with the text.
   </p>

   <p>
    Last, but not least, Audio-eBooks
    are <strong>fun</strong> and <strong>versatile</strong>,
    allowing everybody to enjoy their favorite books
    by reading, listening or reading+listening,
    switching between these three modalities seamlessly.
    And all this by just installing an app in their smartphones and tablets!
   </p>
  
   <p>
    In ReadBeyond <strong>we love great stories.</strong>
    We think everybody should be able to share one with fellow human beings.
    To pursue this goal, we adopt the <strong>open format EPUB&#160;3</strong>,
    which allows the production and distribution of digital publications
    that respect the <strong>freedom</strong> of the reader/listener
    of <strong>customizing the book experience</strong> as desired.
   </p>

   <p>
    To learn more about <strong>Audio-eBooks</strong>,
    and to download our <strong>free Android/iOS app Menestrello</strong> to enjoy them,
    please visit
    <a href="http://readbeyond.it/">[&#160;http://readbeyond.it/&#160;]</a>.
   </p>

   <p class="separator">* * *</p>

   <p>
    According to our vision and mission, we release this Audio-eBook
    under the terms of the <strong>Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 4.0 License</strong>,
    so everyone can freely enjoy, distribute, or improve it.
   </p>

   <p>
    The text of this Audio-eBook is a revised version of the text available from
    <strong>Project Gutenberg</strong>
    (<a href="http://www.gutenberg.org/">[&#160;http://www.gutenberg.org/&#160;]</a>),
    while the audio was recorded within the <strong>LibriVox Project</strong>
    (<a href="http://www.librivox.org/">[&#160;http://www.librivox.org/&#160;]</a>).
   </p>

   <p>
    We are deeply grateful to the volunteers of both projects,
    for making their terrific work freely available under a liberal license.
    Hence, if you enjoy this Audio-eBook,
    <strong>please consider making a donation to the above projects</strong>.
   </p>

   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   
   <p>
    Finally, let me discuss a <strong>technical note</strong>.
    The <strong>synchronous highlighting</strong> and <strong>tap-to-play</strong> functions are implemented via the <strong>EPUB&#160;3 Media&#160;Overlays</strong> specification, which is a standard, declarative way of describing the synchronization information.
    If you are using Apple&#160;iBooks, please note that this Audio-eBook includes Javascript code enabling the synchronous highlighting and tap-to-play functions, which currently are not supported officially by iBooks for reflowable eBooks. Hence, this Javascript workaround might have bugs and/or it might not work in future releases of iBooks.
    If you agree with us that synchronous highlighting and tap-to-play are useful features, but your reading system does not support them, <strong>please urge the developers of your reading system to support the official EPUB&#160;3 Media&#160;Overlays specification</strong> for both fixed layout and reflowable eBooks.
   </p>

   <p>
    To overcome these limitations of the current EPUB&#160;3 reading systems,
    ReadBeyond created <a href="http://readbeyond.it/menestrello/"><strong>Menestrello</strong></a>,
    an <strong>Android and iOS app</strong> for reading+listening EPUB&#160;3 Audio-eBooks.
    Menestrello can be <strong>freely</strong> downloaded
    from the <a href="http://readbeyond.it/menestrello/">Google Play</a> store and
    the <a href="http://readbeyond.it/menestrello/">App Store</a>,
    and <strong>we strongly suggest it</strong> to enjoy your Audio-eBooks.
   </p>

   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   
   <p class="signature">Happy reading+listening!</p>

   <p class="signature">Alberto Pettarin<br/>ReadBeyond<br/>alberto@readbeyond.it</p>

  </section>
 </body>
</html>
