<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Five Beloved Stories</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />O. Henry</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">The Gift of the Magi</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">One dollar and eighty-seven cents.</span>
   <span id="f000009">That was all.</span>
   <span id="f000010">And sixty cents of it was in pennies.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Pennies saved one and two at a time by bulldozing the grocer and the vegetable man and the butcher until one’s cheeks burned with the silent imputation of parsimony that such close dealing implied.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Three times Della counted it.</span>
   <span id="f000013">One dollar and eighty-seven cents.</span>
   <span id="f000014">And the next day would be Christmas.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">There was clearly nothing to do but flop down on the shabby little couch and howl.</span>
   <span id="f000016">So Della did it.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Which instigates the moral reflection that life is made up of sobs,</span>
   <span id="f000018">sniffles,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and smiles,</span>
   <span id="f000020">with sniffles predominating.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">While the mistress of the home is gradually subsiding from the first stage to the second,</span>
   <span id="f000022">take a look at the home.</span>
   <span id="f000023">A furnished flat at $8 per week.</span>
   <span id="f000024">It did not exactly beggar description,</span>
   <span id="f000025">but it certainly had that word on the lookout for the mendicancy squad.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">In the vestibule below was a letter-box into which no letter would go,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and an electric button from which no mortal finger could coax a ring.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Also appertaining thereunto was a card bearing the name “Mr.&#160;James Dillingham Young.” The “Dillingham” had been flung to the breeze during a former period of prosperity when its possessor was being paid $30 per week.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000030">when the income was shrunk to $20,</span>
   <span id="f000031">the letters of “Dillingham” looked blurred,</span>
   <span id="f000032">as though they were thinking seriously of contracting to a modest and unassuming D.</span>
   <span id="f000033">But whenever Mr.&#160;James Dillingham Young came home and reached his flat above he was called “Jim” and greatly hugged by Mrs.&#160;James Dillingham Young,</span>
   <span id="f000034">already introduced to you as Della.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Which is all very good.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">Della finished her cry and attended to her cheeks with the powder rag.</span>
   <span id="f000037">She stood by the window and looked out dully at a grey cat walking a grey fence in a grey backyard.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Tomorrow would be Christmas Day,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and she had only $1.87 with which to buy Jim a present.</span>
   <span id="f000040">She had been saving every penny she could for months,</span>
   <span id="f000041">with this result.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Twenty dollars a week doesn’t go far.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Expenses had been greater than she had calculated.</span>
   <span id="f000044">They always are.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Only $1.87 to buy a present for Jim.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Her Jim.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Many a happy hour she had spent planning for something nice for him.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Something fine and rare and sterling – something just a little bit near to being worthy of the honour of being owned by Jim.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">There was a pier-glass between the windows of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Perhaps you have seen a pier-glass in an $8 flat.</span>
   <span id="f000051">A very thin and very agile person may,</span>
   <span id="f000052">by observing his reflection in a rapid sequence of longitudinal strips,</span>
   <span id="f000053">obtain a fairly accurate conception of his looks.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Della,</span>
   <span id="f000055">being slender,</span>
   <span id="f000056">had mastered the art.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">Suddenly she whirled from the window and stood before the glass.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Her eyes were shining brilliantly,</span>
   <span id="f000059">but her face had lost its colour within twenty seconds.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Rapidly she pulled down her hair and let it fall to its full length.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000062">there were two possessions of the James Dillingham Youngs in which they both took a mighty pride.</span>
   <span id="f000063">One was Jim’s gold watch that had been his father’s and his grandfather’s.</span>
   <span id="f000064">The other was Della’s hair.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Had the Queen of Sheba lived in the flat across the airshaft,</span>
   <span id="f000066">Della would have let her hair hang out the window some day to dry just to depreciate Her Majesty’s jewels and gifts.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Had King Solomon been the janitor,</span>
   <span id="f000068">with all his treasures piled up in the basement,</span>
   <span id="f000069">Jim would have pulled out his watch every time he passed,</span>
   <span id="f000070">just to see him pluck at his beard from envy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">So now Della’s beautiful hair fell about her,</span>
   <span id="f000072">rippling and shining like a cascade of brown waters.</span>
   <span id="f000073">It reached below her knee and made itself almost a garment for her.</span>
   <span id="f000074">And then she did it up again nervously and quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Once she faltered for a minute and stood still while a tear or two splashed on the worn red carpet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">On went her old brown jacket;</span>
   <span id="f000077">on went her old brown hat.</span>
   <span id="f000078">With a whirl of skirts and with the brilliant sparkle still in her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000079">she fluttered out the door and down the stairs to the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">Where she stopped the sign read:</span>
   <span id="f000081">“Mme.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Sofronie.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Hair Goods of All Kinds.” One flight up Della ran,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and collected herself,</span>
   <span id="f000085">panting.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Madame,</span>
   <span id="f000087">large,</span>
   <span id="f000088">too white,</span>
   <span id="f000089">chilly,</span>
   <span id="f000090">hardly looked the “Sofronie.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">“Will you buy my hair?” asked Della.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“I buy hair,” said Madame.</span>
   <span id="f000093">“Take yer hat off and let’s have a sight at the looks of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">Down rippled the brown cascade.</span>
   <span id="f000095">“Twenty dollars,” said Madame,</span>
   <span id="f000096">lifting the mass with a practised hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“Give it to me quick,” said Della.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and the next two hours tripped by on rosy wings.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Forget the hashed metaphor.</span>
   <span id="f000101">She was ransacking the stores for Jim’s present.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">She found it at last.</span>
   <span id="f000103">It surely had been made for Jim and no one else.</span>
   <span id="f000104">There was no other like it in any of the stores,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and she had turned all of them inside out.</span>
   <span id="f000106">It was a platinum fob chain simple and chaste in design,</span>
   <span id="f000107">properly proclaiming its value by substance alone and not by meretricious ornamentation – as all good things should do.</span>
   <span id="f000108">It was even worthy of The Watch.</span>
   <span id="f000109">As soon as she saw it she knew that it must be Jim’s.</span>
   <span id="f000110">It was like him.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Quietness and value – the description applied to both.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Twenty-one dollars they took from her for it,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and she hurried home with the 87 cents.</span>
   <span id="f000114">With that chain on his watch Jim might be properly anxious about the time in any company.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Grand as the watch was,</span>
   <span id="f000116">he sometimes looked at it on the sly on account of the old leather strap that he used in place of a chain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">When Della reached home her intoxication gave way a little to prudence and reason.</span>
   <span id="f000118">She got out her curling irons and lighted the gas and went to work repairing the ravages made by generosity added to love.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Which is always a tremendous task,</span>
   <span id="f000120">dear friends – a mammoth task.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">Within forty minutes her head was covered with tiny,</span>
   <span id="f000122">close-lying curls that made her look wonderfully like a truant schoolboy.</span>
   <span id="f000123">She looked at her reflection in the mirror long,</span>
   <span id="f000124">carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and critically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“If Jim doesn’t kill me,” she said to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000127">“before he takes a second look at me,</span>
   <span id="f000128">he’ll say I look like a Coney Island chorus girl.</span>
   <span id="f000129">But what could I do – oh!</span>
   <span id="f000130">what could I do with a dollar and eighty-seven cents?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">At 7 o’clock the coffee was made and the frying-pan was on the back of the stove hot and ready to cook the chops.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">Jim was never late.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Della doubled the fob chain in her hand and sat on the corner of the table near the door that he always entered.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Then she heard his step on the stair away down on the first flight,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and she turned white for just a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000136">She had a habit for saying little silent prayers about the simplest everyday things,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and now she whispered:</span>
   <span id="f000138">“Please God,</span>
   <span id="f000139">make him think I am still pretty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">The door opened and Jim stepped in and closed it.</span>
   <span id="f000141">He looked thin and very serious.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000143">he was only twenty-two – and to be burdened with a family!</span>
   <span id="f000144">He needed a new overcoat and he was without gloves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">Jim stopped inside the door,</span>
   <span id="f000146">as immovable as a setter at the scent of quail.</span>
   <span id="f000147">His eyes were fixed upon Della,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and there was an expression in them that she could not read,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and it terrified her.</span>
   <span id="f000150">It was not anger,</span>
   <span id="f000151">nor surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000152">nor disapproval,</span>
   <span id="f000153">nor horror,</span>
   <span id="f000154">nor any of the sentiments that she had been prepared for.</span>
   <span id="f000155">He simply stared at her fixedly with that peculiar expression on his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">Della wriggled off the table and went for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Jim,</span>
   <span id="f000158">darling,” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000159">“don’t look at me that way.</span>
   <span id="f000160">I had my hair cut off and sold because I couldn’t have lived through Christmas without giving you a present.</span>
   <span id="f000161">It’ll grow out again – you won’t mind,</span>
   <span id="f000162">will you?</span>
   <span id="f000163">I just had to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000164">My hair grows awfully fast.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Say ’Merry Christmas!’ Jim,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and let’s be happy.</span>
   <span id="f000167">You don’t know what a nice – what a beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000168">nice gift I’ve got for you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“You’ve cut off your hair?” asked Jim,</span>
   <span id="f000170">laboriously,</span>
   <span id="f000171">as if he had not arrived at that patent fact yet even after the hardest mental labor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“Cut it off and sold it,” said Della.</span>
   <span id="f000173">“Don’t you like me just as well,</span>
   <span id="f000174">anyhow?</span>
   <span id="f000175">I’m me without my hair,</span>
   <span id="f000176">ain’t I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">Jim looked about the room curiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“You say your hair is gone?” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000179">with an air almost of idiocy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“You needn’t look for it,” said Della.</span>
   <span id="f000181">“It’s sold,</span>
   <span id="f000182">I tell you – sold and gone,</span>
   <span id="f000183">too.</span>
   <span id="f000184">It’s Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000185">boy.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Be good to me,</span>
   <span id="f000187">for it went for you.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Maybe the hairs of my head were numbered,” she went on with sudden serious sweetness,</span>
   <span id="f000189">“but nobody could ever count my love for you.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Shall I put the chops on,</span>
   <span id="f000191">Jim?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">Out of his trance Jim seemed quickly to wake.</span>
   <span id="f000193">He enfolded his Della.</span>
   <span id="f000194">For ten seconds let us regard with discreet scrutiny some inconsequential object in the other direction.</span>
   <span id="f000195">Eight dollars a week or a million a year – what is the difference?</span>
   <span id="f000196">A mathematician or a wit would give you the wrong answer.</span>
   <span id="f000197">The magi brought valuable gifts,</span>
   <span id="f000198">but that was not among them.</span>
   <span id="f000199">This dark assertion will be illuminated later on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">Jim drew a package from his overcoat pocket and threw it upon the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Don’t make any mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000202">Dell,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000203">“about me.</span>
   <span id="f000204">I don’t think there’s anything in the way of a haircut or a shave or a shampoo that could make me like my girl any less.</span>
   <span id="f000205">But if you’ll unwrap that package you may see why you had me going a while at first.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">White fingers and nimble tore at the string and paper.</span>
   <span id="f000207">And then an ecstatic scream of joy;</span>
   <span id="f000208">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000209">alas!</span>
   <span id="f000210">a quick feminine change to hysterical tears and wails,</span>
   <span id="f000211">necessitating the immediate employment of all the comforting powers of the lord of the flat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">For there lay The Combs – the set of combs,</span>
   <span id="f000213">side and back,</span>
   <span id="f000214">that Della had worshipped long in a Broadway window.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Beautiful combs,</span>
   <span id="f000216">pure tortoise shell,</span>
   <span id="f000217">with jewelled rims – just the shade to wear in the beautiful vanished hair.</span>
   <span id="f000218">They were expensive combs,</span>
   <span id="f000219">she knew,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and her heart had simply craved and yearned over them without the least hope of possession.</span>
   <span id="f000221">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000222">they were hers,</span>
   <span id="f000223">but the tresses that should have adorned the coveted adornments were gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">But she hugged them to her bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and at length she was able to look up with dim eyes and a smile and say:</span>
   <span id="f000226">“My hair grows so fast,</span>
   <span id="f000227">Jim!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">And then Della leaped up like a little singed cat and cried,</span>
   <span id="f000229">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000230">oh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">Jim had not yet seen his beautiful present.</span>
   <span id="f000232">She held it out to him eagerly upon her open palm.</span>
   <span id="f000233">The dull precious metal seemed to flash with a reflection of her bright and ardent spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“Isn’t it a dandy,</span>
   <span id="f000235">Jim?</span>
   <span id="f000236">I hunted all over town to find it.</span>
   <span id="f000237">You’ll have to look at the time a hundred times a day now.</span>
   <span id="f000238">Give me your watch.</span>
   <span id="f000239">I want to see how it looks on it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">Instead of obeying,</span>
   <span id="f000241">Jim tumbled down on the couch and put his hands under the back of his head and smiled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“Dell,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000243">“let’s put our Christmas presents away and keep ’em a while.</span>
   <span id="f000244">They’re too nice to use just at present.</span>
   <span id="f000245">I sold the watch to get the money to buy your combs.</span>
   <span id="f000246">And now suppose you put the chops on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">The magi,</span>
   <span id="f000248">as you know,</span>
   <span id="f000249">were wise men – wonderfully wise men – who brought gifts to the Babe in the manger.</span>
   <span id="f000250">They invented the art of giving Christmas presents.</span>
   <span id="f000251">Being wise,</span>
   <span id="f000252">their gifts were no doubt wise ones,</span>
   <span id="f000253">possibly bearing the privilege of exchange in case of duplication.</span>
   <span id="f000254">And here I have lamely related to you the uneventful chronicle of two foolish children in a flat who most unwisely sacrificed for each other the greatest treasures of their house.</span>
   <span id="f000255">But in a last word to the wise of these days let it be said that of all who give gifts these two were the wisest.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Of all who give and receive gifts,</span>
   <span id="f000257">such as they are wisest.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Everywhere they are wisest.</span>
   <span id="f000259">They are the magi.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

