<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Beast in the Cave</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">The horrible conclusion which had been gradually intruding itself upon my confused and reluctant mind was now an awful certainty.</span>
   <span id="f000003">I was lost,</span>
   <span id="f000004">completely,</span>
   <span id="f000005">hopelessly lost in the vast and labyrinthine recess of the Mammoth Cave.</span>
   <span id="f000006">Turn as I might,</span>
   <span id="f000007">in no direction could my straining vision seize on any object capable of serving as a guidepost to set me on the outward path.</span>
   <span id="f000008">That nevermore should I behold the blessed light of day,</span>
   <span id="f000009">or scan the pleasant bills and dales of the beautiful world outside,</span>
   <span id="f000010">my reason could no longer entertain the slightest unbelief.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Hope had departed.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000013">indoctrinated as I was by a life of philosophical study,</span>
   <span id="f000014">I derived no small measure of satisfaction from my unimpassioned demeanour;</span>
   <span id="f000015">for although I had frequently read of the wild frenzies into which were thrown the victims of similar situations,</span>
   <span id="f000016">I experienced none of these,</span>
   <span id="f000017">but stood quiet as soon as I clearly realised the loss of my bearings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">Nor did the thought that I had probably wandered beyond the utmost limits of an ordinary search cause me to abandon my composure even for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000019">If I must die,</span>
   <span id="f000020">I reflected,</span>
   <span id="f000021">then was this terrible yet majestic cavern as welcome a sepulchre as that which any churchyard might afford,</span>
   <span id="f000022">a conception which carried with it more of tranquillity than of despair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">Starving would prove my ultimate fate;</span>
   <span id="f000024">of this I was certain.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Some,</span>
   <span id="f000026">I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000027">had gone mad under circumstances such as these,</span>
   <span id="f000028">but I felt that this end would not be mine.</span>
   <span id="f000029">My disaster was the result of no fault save my own,</span>
   <span id="f000030">since unknown to the guide I had separated myself from the regular party of sightseers;</span>
   <span id="f000031">and,</span>
   <span id="f000032">wandering for over an hour in forbidden avenues of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000033">had found myself unable to retrace the devious windings which I had pursued since forsaking my companions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">Already my torch had begun to expire;</span>
   <span id="f000035">soon I would be enveloped by the total and almost palpable blackness of the bowels of the earth.</span>
   <span id="f000036">As I stood in the waning,</span>
   <span id="f000037">unsteady light,</span>
   <span id="f000038">I idly wondered over the exact circumstances of my coming end.</span>
   <span id="f000039">I remembered the accounts which I had heard of the colony of consumptives,</span>
   <span id="f000040">who,</span>
   <span id="f000041">taking their residence in this gigantic grotto to find health from the apparently salubrious air of the underground world,</span>
   <span id="f000042">with its steady,</span>
   <span id="f000043">uniform temperature,</span>
   <span id="f000044">pure air,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and peaceful quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000046">had found,</span>
   <span id="f000047">instead,</span>
   <span id="f000048">death in strange and ghastly form.</span>
   <span id="f000049">I had seen the sad remains of their ill-made cottages as I passed them by with the party,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and had wondered what unnatural influence a long sojourn in this immense and silent cavern would exert upon one as healthy and vigorous as I.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000052">I grimly told myself,</span>
   <span id="f000053">my opportunity for settling this point had arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000054">provided that want of food should not bring me too speedy a departure from this life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">As the last fitful rays of my torch faded into obscurity,</span>
   <span id="f000056">I resolved to leave no stone unturned,</span>
   <span id="f000057">no possible means of escape neglected;</span>
   <span id="f000058">so,</span>
   <span id="f000059">summoning all the powers possessed by my lungs,</span>
   <span id="f000060">I set up a series of loud shoutings,</span>
   <span id="f000061">in the vain hope of attracting the attention of the guide by my clamour.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000063">as I called,</span>
   <span id="f000064">I believed in my heart that my cries were to no purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and that my voice,</span>
   <span id="f000066">magnified and reflected by the numberless ramparts of the black maze about me,</span>
   <span id="f000067">fell upon no ears save my own.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">All at once,</span>
   <span id="f000069">however,</span>
   <span id="f000070">my attention was fixed with a start as I fancied that I heard the sound of soft approaching steps on the rocky floor of the cavern.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">Was my deliverance about to be accomplished so soon?</span>
   <span id="f000072">Had,</span>
   <span id="f000073">then,</span>
   <span id="f000074">all my horrible apprehensions been for naught,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and was the guide,</span>
   <span id="f000076">having marked my unwarranted absence from the party,</span>
   <span id="f000077">following my course and seeking me out in this limestone labyrinth?</span>
   <span id="f000078">Whilst these joyful queries arose in my brain,</span>
   <span id="f000079">I was on the point of renewing my cries,</span>
   <span id="f000080">in order that my discovery might come the sooner,</span>
   <span id="f000081">when in an instant my delight was turned to horror as I listened;</span>
   <span id="f000082">for my ever acute ear,</span>
   <span id="f000083">now sharpened in even greater degree by the complete silence of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000084">bore to my benumbed understanding the unexpected and dreadful knowledge that these footfalls were not like those of any mortal man.</span>
   <span id="f000085">In the unearthly stillness of this subterranean region,</span>
   <span id="f000086">the tread of the booted guide would have sounded like a series of sharp and incisive blows.</span>
   <span id="f000087">These impacts were soft,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and stealthy,</span>
   <span id="f000089">as of the paws of some feline.</span>
   <span id="f000090">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000091">when I listened carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000092">I seemed to trace the falls of four instead of two feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">I was now convinced that I had by my own cries aroused and attracted some wild beast,</span>
   <span id="f000094">perhaps a mountain lion which had accidentally strayed within the cave.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000096">I considered,</span>
   <span id="f000097">the Almighty had chosen for me a swifter and more merciful death than that of hunger;</span>
   <span id="f000098">yet the instinct of self-preservation,</span>
   <span id="f000099">never wholly dormant,</span>
   <span id="f000100">was stirred in my breast,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and though escape from the on-coming peril might but spare me for a sterner and more lingering end,</span>
   <span id="f000102">I determined nevertheless to part with my life at as high a price as I could command.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Strange as it may seem,</span>
   <span id="f000104">my mind conceived of no intent on the part of the visitor save that of hostility.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f000106">I became very quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000107">in the hope that the unknown beast would,</span>
   <span id="f000108">in the absence of a guiding sound,</span>
   <span id="f000109">lose its direction as had I,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and thus pass me by.</span>
   <span id="f000111">But this hope was not destined for realisation,</span>
   <span id="f000112">for the strange footfalls steadily advanced,</span>
   <span id="f000113">the animal evidently having obtained my scent,</span>
   <span id="f000114">which in an atmosphere so absolutely free from all distracting influences as is that of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000115">could doubtless be followed at great distance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">Seeing therefore that I must be armed for defense against an uncanny and unseen attack in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000117">I groped about me the largest of the fragments of rock which were strewn upon all parts of the floor of the cavern in the vicinity,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and grasping one in each hand for immediate use,</span>
   <span id="f000119">awaited with resignation the inevitable result.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Meanwhile the hideous pattering of the paws drew near.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000122">the conduct of the creature was exceedingly strange.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Most of the time,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the tread seemed to be that of a quadruped,</span>
   <span id="f000125">walking with a singular lack of unison betwixt hind and fore feet,</span>
   <span id="f000126">yet at brief and infrequent intervals I fancied that but two feet were engaged in the process of locomotion.</span>
   <span id="f000127">I wondered what species of animal was to confront me;</span>
   <span id="f000128">it must,</span>
   <span id="f000129">I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000130">be some unfortunate beast who had paid for its curiosity to investigate one of the entrances of the fearful grotto with a life-long confinement in its interminable recesses.</span>
   <span id="f000131">It doubtless obtained as food the eyeless fish,</span>
   <span id="f000132">bats and rats of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000133">as well as some of the ordinary fish that are wafted in at every freshet of Green River,</span>
   <span id="f000134">which communicates in some occult manner with the waters of the cave.</span>
   <span id="f000135">I occupied my terrible vigil with grotesque conjectures of what alteration cave life might have wrought in the physical structure of the beast,</span>
   <span id="f000136">remembering the awful appearances ascribed by local tradition to the consumptives who had died after long residence in the cave.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Then I remembered with a start that,</span>
   <span id="f000138">even should I succeed in felling my antagonist,</span>
   <span id="f000139">I should never behold its form,</span>
   <span id="f000140">as my torch had long since been extinct,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and I was entirely unprovided with matches.</span>
   <span id="f000142">The tension on my brain now became frightful.</span>
   <span id="f000143">My disordered fancy conjured up hideous and fearsome shapes from the sinister darkness that surrounded me,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and that actually seemed to press upon my body.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000146">nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000147">the dreadful footfalls approached.</span>
   <span id="f000148">It seemed that I must give vent to a piercing scream,</span>
   <span id="f000149">yet had I been sufficiently irresolute to attempt such a thing,</span>
   <span id="f000150">my voice could scarce have responded.</span>
   <span id="f000151">I was petrified,</span>
   <span id="f000152">rooted to the spot.</span>
   <span id="f000153">I doubted if my right arm would allow me to hurl its missile at the oncoming thing when the crucial moment should arrive.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Now the steady pat,</span>
   <span id="f000155">pat,</span>
   <span id="f000156">of the steps was close at hand;</span>
   <span id="f000157">now very close.</span>
   <span id="f000158">I could hear the laboured breathing of the animal,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and terror-struck as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000160">I realised that it must have come from a considerable distance,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and was correspondingly fatigued.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Suddenly the spell broke.</span>
   <span id="f000163">My right hand,</span>
   <span id="f000164">guided by my ever trustworthy sense of hearing,</span>
   <span id="f000165">threw with full force the sharp-angled bit of limestone which it contained,</span>
   <span id="f000166">toward that point in the darkness from which emanated the breathing and pattering,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and,</span>
   <span id="f000168">wonderful to relate,</span>
   <span id="f000169">it nearly reached its goal,</span>
   <span id="f000170">for I heard the thing jump,</span>
   <span id="f000171">landing at a distance away,</span>
   <span id="f000172">where it seemed to pause.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">Having readjusted my aim,</span>
   <span id="f000174">I discharged my second missile,</span>
   <span id="f000175">this time most effectively,</span>
   <span id="f000176">for with a flood of joy I listened as the creature fell in what sounded like a complete collapse and evidently remained prone and unmoving.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Almost overpowered by the great relief which rushed over me,</span>
   <span id="f000178">I reeled back against the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000179">The breathing continued,</span>
   <span id="f000180">in heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000181">gasping inhalations and expirations,</span>
   <span id="f000182">whence I realised that I had no more than wounded the creature.</span>
   <span id="f000183">And now all desire to examine the thing ceased.</span>
   <span id="f000184">At last something allied to groundless,</span>
   <span id="f000185">superstitious fear had entered my brain,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and I did not approach the body,</span>
   <span id="f000187">nor did I continue to cast stones at it in order to complete the extinction of its life.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Instead,</span>
   <span id="f000189">I ran at full speed in what was,</span>
   <span id="f000190">as nearly as I could estimate in my frenzied condition,</span>
   <span id="f000191">the direction from which I had come.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Suddenly I heard a sound or rather,</span>
   <span id="f000193">a regular succession of sounds.</span>
   <span id="f000194">In another Instant they had resolved themselves into a series of sharp,</span>
   <span id="f000195">metallic clicks.</span>
   <span id="f000196">This time there was no doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000197">It was the guide.</span>
   <span id="f000198">And then I shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000199">yelled,</span>
   <span id="f000200">screamed,</span>
   <span id="f000201">even shrieked with joy as I beheld in the vaulted arches above the faint and glimmering effulgence which I knew to be the reflected light of an approaching torch.</span>
   <span id="f000202">I ran to meet the flare,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and before I could completely understand what had occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000204">was lying upon the ground at the feet of the guide,</span>
   <span id="f000205">embracing his boots and gibbering.</span>
   <span id="f000206">despite my boasted reserve,</span>
   <span id="f000207">in a most meaningless and idiotic manner,</span>
   <span id="f000208">pouring out my terrible story,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and at the same time overwhelming my auditor with protestations of gratitude.</span>
   <span id="f000210">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000211">I awoke to something like my normal consciousness.</span>
   <span id="f000212">The guide had noted my absence upon the arrival of the party at the entrance of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and had,</span>
   <span id="f000214">from his own intuitive sense of direction,</span>
   <span id="f000215">proceeded to make a thorough canvass of by-passages just ahead of where he had last spoken to me,</span>
   <span id="f000216">locating my whereabouts after a quest of about four hours.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">By the time he had related this to me,</span>
   <span id="f000218">I,</span>
   <span id="f000219">emboldened by his torch and his company,</span>
   <span id="f000220">began to reflect upon the strange beast which I had wounded but a short distance back in the darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and suggested that we ascertain,</span>
   <span id="f000222">by the flashlights aid,</span>
   <span id="f000223">what manner of creature was my victim.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Accordingly I retraced my steps,</span>
   <span id="f000225">this time with a courage born of companionship,</span>
   <span id="f000226">to the scene of my terrible experience.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Soon we descried a white object upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000228">an object whiter even than the gleaming limestone itself.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Cautiously advancing,</span>
   <span id="f000230">we gave vent to a simultaneous ejaculation of wonderment,</span>
   <span id="f000231">for of all the unnatural monsters either of us had in our lifetimes beheld,</span>
   <span id="f000232">this was in surpassing degree the strangest.</span>
   <span id="f000233">It appeared to be an anthropoid ape of large proportions,</span>
   <span id="f000234">escaped,</span>
   <span id="f000235">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000236">from some itinerant menagerie.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Its hair was snow-white,</span>
   <span id="f000238">a thing due no doubt to the bleaching action of a long existence within the inky confines of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000239">but it was also surprisingly thin,</span>
   <span id="f000240">being indeed largely absent save on the head,</span>
   <span id="f000241">where it was of such length and abundance that it fell over the shoulders in considerable profusion.</span>
   <span id="f000242">The face was turned away from us,</span>
   <span id="f000243">as the creature lay almost directly upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000244">The inclination of the limbs was very singular,</span>
   <span id="f000245">explaining,</span>
   <span id="f000246">however,</span>
   <span id="f000247">the alternation in their use which I bad before noted,</span>
   <span id="f000248">whereby the beast used sometimes all four,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and on other occasions but two for its progress.</span>
   <span id="f000250">From the tips of the fingers or toes,</span>
   <span id="f000251">long rat-like claws extended.</span>
   <span id="f000252">The hands or feet were not prehensile,</span>
   <span id="f000253">a fact that I ascribed to that long residence in the cave which,</span>
   <span id="f000254">as I before mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000255">seemed evident from the all-pervading and almost unearthly whiteness so characteristic of the whole anatomy.</span>
   <span id="f000256">No tail seemed to be present.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">The respiration had now grown very feeble,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and the guide had drawn his pistol with the evident intent of despatching the creature,</span>
   <span id="f000259">when a sudden sound emitted by the latter caused the weapon to fall unused.</span>
   <span id="f000260">The sound was of a nature difficult to describe.</span>
   <span id="f000261">It was not like the normal note of any known species of simian,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and I wonder if this unnatural quality were not the result of a long continued and complete silence,</span>
   <span id="f000263">broken by the sensations produced by the advent of the light,</span>
   <span id="f000264">a thing which the beast could not have seen since its first entrance into the cave.</span>
   <span id="f000265">The sound,</span>
   <span id="f000266">which I might feebly attempt to classify as a kind of deep-tone chattering,</span>
   <span id="f000267">was faintly continued.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">All at once a fleeting spasm of energy seemed to pass through the frame of the beast.</span>
   <span id="f000269">The paws went through a convulsive motion,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and the limbs contracted.</span>
   <span id="f000271">With a jerk,</span>
   <span id="f000272">the white body rolled over so that its face was turned in our direction.</span>
   <span id="f000273">For a moment I was so struck with horror at the eyes thus revealed that I noted nothing else.</span>
   <span id="f000274">They were black,</span>
   <span id="f000275">those eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000276">deep jetty black,</span>
   <span id="f000277">in hideous contrast to the snow-white hair and flesh.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Like those of other cave denizens,</span>
   <span id="f000279">they were deeply sunken in their orbits,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and were entirely destitute of iris.</span>
   <span id="f000281">As I looked more closely,</span>
   <span id="f000282">I saw that they were set in a face less prognathous than that of the average ape,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and infinitely less hairy.</span>
   <span id="f000284">The nose was quite distinct.</span>
   <span id="f000285">As we gazed upon the uncanny sight presented to our vision,</span>
   <span id="f000286">the thick lips opened,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and several sounds issued from them,</span>
   <span id="f000288">after which the thing relaxed in death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">The guide clutched my coat sleeve and trembled so violently that the light shook fitfully,</span>
   <span id="f000290">casting weird moving shadows on the walls.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">I made no motion,</span>
   <span id="f000292">but stood rigidly still,</span>
   <span id="f000293">my horrified eyes fixed upon the floor ahead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">The fear left,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000296">awe,</span>
   <span id="f000297">compassion,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and reverence succeeded in its place,</span>
   <span id="f000299">for the sounds uttered by the stricken figure that lay stretched out on the limestone had told us the awesome truth.</span>
   <span id="f000300">The creature I had killed,</span>
   <span id="f000301">the strange beast of the unfathomed cave,</span>
   <span id="f000302">was,</span>
   <span id="f000303">or had at one time been a MAN!!!</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

