<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The White Ship</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">I am Basil Elton,</span>
   <span id="f000003">keeper of the North Point light that my father and grandfather kept before me.</span>
   <span id="f000004">Far from the shore stands the gray lighthouse,</span>
   <span id="f000005">above sunken slimy rocks that are seen when the tide is low,</span>
   <span id="f000006">but unseen when the tide is high.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Past that beacon for a century have swept the majestic barques of the seven seas.</span>
   <span id="f000008">In the days of my grandfather there were many;</span>
   <span id="f000009">in the days of my father not so many;</span>
   <span id="f000010">and now there are so few that I sometimes feel strangely alone,</span>
   <span id="f000011">as though I were the last man on our planet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">From far shores came those white-sailed argosies of old;</span>
   <span id="f000013">from far Eastern shores where warm suns shine and sweet odors linger about strange gardens and gay temples.</span>
   <span id="f000014">The old captains of the sea came often to my grandfather and told him of these things which in turn he told to my father,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and my father told to me in the long autumn evenings when the wind howled eerily from the East.</span>
   <span id="f000016">And I have read more of these things,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and of many things besides,</span>
   <span id="f000018">in the books men gave me when I was young and filled with wonder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">But more wonderful than the lore of old men and the lore of books is the secret lore of ocean.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Blue,</span>
   <span id="f000021">green,</span>
   <span id="f000022">gray,</span>
   <span id="f000023">white or black;</span>
   <span id="f000024">smooth,</span>
   <span id="f000025">ruffled,</span>
   <span id="f000026">or mountainous;</span>
   <span id="f000027">that ocean is not silent.</span>
   <span id="f000028">All my days have I watched it and listened to it,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and I know it well.</span>
   <span id="f000030">At first it told to me only the plain little tales of calm beaches and near ports,</span>
   <span id="f000031">but with the years it grew more friendly and spoke of other things;</span>
   <span id="f000032">of things more strange and more distant in space and time.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Sometimes at twilight the gray vapors of the horizon have parted to grant me glimpses of the ways beyond;</span>
   <span id="f000034">and sometimes at night the deep waters of the sea have grown clear and phosphorescent,</span>
   <span id="f000035">to grant me glimpses of the ways beneath.</span>
   <span id="f000036">And these glimpses have been as often of the ways that were and the ways that might be,</span>
   <span id="f000037">as of the ways that are;</span>
   <span id="f000038">for ocean is more ancient than the mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and freighted with the memories and the dreams of Time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">Out of the South it was that the White Ship used to come when the moon was full and high in the heavens.</span>
   <span id="f000041">Out of the South it would glide very smoothly and silently over the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000042">And whether the sea was rough or calm,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and whether the wind was friendly or adverse,</span>
   <span id="f000044">it would always glide smoothly and silently,</span>
   <span id="f000045">its sails distant and its long strange tiers of oars moving rhythmically.</span>
   <span id="f000046">One night I spied upon the deck a man,</span>
   <span id="f000047">bearded and robed,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and he seemed to beckon me to embark for far unknown shores.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Many times afterward I saw him under the full moon,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and never did he beckon me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">Very brightly did the moon shine on the night I answered the call,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and I walked out over the waters to the White Ship on a bridge of moonbeams.</span>
   <span id="f000053">The man who had beckoned now spoke a welcome to me in a soft language I seemed to know well,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and the hours were filled with soft songs of the oarsmen as we glided away into a mysterious South,</span>
   <span id="f000055">golden with the glow of that full,</span>
   <span id="f000056">mellow moon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">And when the day dawned,</span>
   <span id="f000058">rosy and effulgent,</span>
   <span id="f000059">I beheld the green shore of far lands,</span>
   <span id="f000060">bright and beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and to me unknown.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Up from the sea rose lordly terraces of verdure,</span>
   <span id="f000063">tree-studded,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and shewing here and there the gleaming white roofs and colonnades of strange temples.</span>
   <span id="f000065">As we drew nearer the green shore the bearded man told me of that land,</span>
   <span id="f000066">the land of Zar,</span>
   <span id="f000067">where dwell all the dreams and thoughts of beauty that come to men once and then are forgotten.</span>
   <span id="f000068">And when I looked upon the terraces again I saw that what he said was true,</span>
   <span id="f000069">for among the sights before me were many things I had once seen through the mists beyond the horizon and in the phosphorescent depths of ocean.</span>
   <span id="f000070">There too were forms and fantasies more splendid than any I had ever known;</span>
   <span id="f000071">the visions of young poets who died in want before the world could learn of what they had seen and dreamed.</span>
   <span id="f000072">But we did not set foot upon the sloping meadows of Zar,</span>
   <span id="f000073">for it is told that he who treads them may nevermore return to his native shore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">As the White Ship sailed silently away from the templed terraces of Zar,</span>
   <span id="f000075">we beheld on the distant horizon ahead the spires of a mighty city;</span>
   <span id="f000076">and the bearded man said to me,</span>
   <span id="f000077">“This is Thalarion,</span>
   <span id="f000078">the City of a Thousand Wonders,</span>
   <span id="f000079">wherein reside all those mysteries that man has striven in vain to fathom.” And I looked again,</span>
   <span id="f000080">at closer range,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and saw that the city was greater than any city I had known or dreamed of before.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Into the sky the spires of its temples reached,</span>
   <span id="f000083">so that no man might behold their peaks;</span>
   <span id="f000084">and far back beyond the horizon stretched the grim,</span>
   <span id="f000085">gray walls,</span>
   <span id="f000086">over which one might spy only a few roofs,</span>
   <span id="f000087">weird and ominous,</span>
   <span id="f000088">yet adorned with rich friezes and alluring sculptures.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">I yearned mightily to enter this fascinating yet repellent city,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and besought the bearded man to land me at the stone pier by the huge carven gate Akariel;</span>
   <span id="f000091">but he gently denied my wish,</span>
   <span id="f000092">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000093">“Into Thalarion,</span>
   <span id="f000094">the City of a Thousand Wonders,</span>
   <span id="f000095">many have passed but none returned.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Therein walk only daemons and mad things that are no longer men,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and the streets are white with the unburied bones of those who have looked upon the eidolon Lathi,</span>
   <span id="f000098">that reigns over the city.” So the White Ship sailed on past the walls of Thalarion,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and followed for many days a southward-flying bird,</span>
   <span id="f000100">whose glossy plumage matched the sky out of which it had appeared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">Then came we to a pleasant coast gay with blossoms of every hue,</span>
   <span id="f000102">where as far inland as we could see basked lovely groves and radiant arbors beneath a meridian sun.</span>
   <span id="f000103">From bowers beyond our view came bursts of song and snatches of lyric harmony,</span>
   <span id="f000104">interspersed with faint laughter so delicious that I urged the rowers onward in my eagerness to reach the scene.</span>
   <span id="f000105">And the bearded man spoke no word,</span>
   <span id="f000106">but watched me as we approached the lily-lined shore.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Suddenly a wind blowing from over the flowery meadows and leafy woods brought a scent at which I trembled.</span>
   <span id="f000108">The wind grew stronger,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and the air was filled with the lethal,</span>
   <span id="f000110">charnel odor of plague-stricken towns and uncovered cemeteries.</span>
   <span id="f000111">And as we sailed madly away from that damnable coast the bearded man spoke at last,</span>
   <span id="f000112">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000113">"This is Xura,</span>
   <span id="f000114">the Land of Pleasures Unattained.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">So once more the White Ship followed the bird of heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000116">over warm blessed seas fanned by caressing,</span>
   <span id="f000117">aromatic breezes.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Day after day and night after night did we sail,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and when the moon was full we would listen to soft songs of the oarsmen,</span>
   <span id="f000120">sweet as on that distant night when we sailed away from my far native land.</span>
   <span id="f000121">And it was by moonlight that we anchored at last in the harbor of Sona-Nyl,</span>
   <span id="f000122">which is guarded by twin headlands of crystal that rise from the sea and meet in a resplendent arch.</span>
   <span id="f000123">This is the Land of Fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and we walked to the verdant shore upon a golden bridge of moonbeams.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">In the Land of Sona-Nyl there is neither time nor space,</span>
   <span id="f000126">neither suffering nor death;</span>
   <span id="f000127">and there I dwelt for many aeons.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Green are the groves and pastures,</span>
   <span id="f000129">bright and fragrant the flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000130">blue and musical the streams,</span>
   <span id="f000131">clear and cool the fountains,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and stately and gorgeous the temples,</span>
   <span id="f000133">castles,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and cities of Sona-Nyl.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Of that land there is no bound,</span>
   <span id="f000136">for beyond each vista of beauty rises another more beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Over the countryside and amidst the splendor of cities can move at will the happy folk,</span>
   <span id="f000138">of whom all are gifted with unmarred grace and unalloyed happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000139">For the aeons that I dwelt there I wandered blissfully through gardens where quaint pagodas peep from pleasing clumps of bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and where the white walks are bordered with delicate blossoms.</span>
   <span id="f000141">I climbed gentle hills from whose summits I could see entrancing panoramas of loveliness,</span>
   <span id="f000142">with steepled towns nestling in verdant valleys,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and with the golden domes of gigantic cities glittering on the infinitely distant horizon.</span>
   <span id="f000144">And I viewed by moonlight the sparkling sea,</span>
   <span id="f000145">the crystal headlands,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and the placid harbor wherein lay anchored the White Ship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">It was against the full moon one night in the immemorial year of Tharp that I saw outlined the beckoning form of the celestial bird,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and felt the first stirrings of unrest.</span>
   <span id="f000149">Then I spoke with the bearded man,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and told him of my new yearnings to depart for remote Cathuria,</span>
   <span id="f000151">which no man hath seen,</span>
   <span id="f000152">but which all believe to lie beyond the basalt pillars of the West.</span>
   <span id="f000153">It is the Land of Hope,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and in it shine the perfect ideals of all that we know elsewhere;</span>
   <span id="f000155">or at least so men relate.</span>
   <span id="f000156">But the bearded man said to me,</span>
   <span id="f000157">“Beware of those perilous seas wherein men say Cathuria lies.</span>
   <span id="f000158">In Sona-Nyl there is no pain or death,</span>
   <span id="f000159">but who can tell what lies beyond the basalt pillars of the West?” Nonetheless at the next full moon I boarded the White Ship,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and with the reluctant bearded man left the happy harbor for untraveled seas.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">And the bird of heaven flew before,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and led us toward the basalt pillars of the West,</span>
   <span id="f000163">but this time the oarsmen sang no soft songs under the full moon.</span>
   <span id="f000164">In my mind I would often picture the unknown Land of Cathuria with its splendid groves and palaces,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and would wonder what new delights there awaited me.</span>
   <span id="f000166">“Cathuria,” I would say to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000167">“is the abode of Gods and the land of unnumbered cities of gold.</span>
   <span id="f000168">Its forests are of aloe and sandalwood,</span>
   <span id="f000169">even as the fragrant groves of Camorin,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and among the trees flutter gay birds sweet with song.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">On the green and flowery mountains of Cathuria stand temples of pink marble,</span>
   <span id="f000172">rich with carven and painted glories,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and having in their courtyards cool fountains of silver,</span>
   <span id="f000174">where purr with ravishing music the scented waters that come from the grotto-born river Narg.</span>
   <span id="f000175">And the cities of Cathuria are cinctured with golden walls,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and their pavements also are of gold.</span>
   <span id="f000177">In the gardens of these cities are strange orchids,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and perfumed lakes whose beds are of coral and amber.</span>
   <span id="f000179">At night the streets and the gardens are lit with gay lanthorns fashioned from the three-colored shell of the tortoise,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and here resound the soft notes of the singer and the lutanist.</span>
   <span id="f000181">And the houses of the cities of Cathuria are all palaces,</span>
   <span id="f000182">each built over a fragrant canal bearing the waters of the sacred Narg.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Of marble and porphyry are the houses,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and roofed with glittering gold that reflects the rays of the sun and enhances the splendor of the cities as blissful Gods view them from the distant peaks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">Fairest of all is the palace of the great monarch Dorieb,</span>
   <span id="f000186">whom some say to be a demi-God and others a God.</span>
   <span id="f000187">High is the palace of Dorieb,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and many are the turrets of marble upon its walls.</span>
   <span id="f000189">In its wide halls many multitudes assemble,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and here hang the trophies of the ages.</span>
   <span id="f000191">And the roof is of pure gold,</span>
   <span id="f000192">set upon tall pillars of ruby and azure,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and having such carven figures of Gods and heroes that he who looks up to those heights seems to gaze upon the living Olympus.</span>
   <span id="f000194">And the floor of the palace is of glass,</span>
   <span id="f000195">under which flow the cunningly lighted waters of the Narg,</span>
   <span id="f000196">gay with gaudy fish not known beyond the bounds of lovely Cathuria.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">Thus would I speak to myself of Cathuria,</span>
   <span id="f000198">but ever would the bearded man warn me to turn back to the happy shore of Sona-Nyl;</span>
   <span id="f000199">for Sona-Nyl is known of men,</span>
   <span id="f000200">while none hath ever beheld Cathuria.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">And on the thirty-first day that we followed the bird,</span>
   <span id="f000202">we beheld the basalt pillars of the West.</span>
   <span id="f000203">Shrouded in mist they were,</span>
   <span id="f000204">so that no man might peer beyond them or see their summits – which indeed some say reach even to the heavens.</span>
   <span id="f000205">And the bearded man again implored me to turn back,</span>
   <span id="f000206">but I heeded him not;</span>
   <span id="f000207">for from the mists beyond the basalt pillars I fancied there came the notes of singers and lutanists;</span>
   <span id="f000208">sweeter than the sweetest songs of Sona-Nyl,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and sounding mine own praises;</span>
   <span id="f000210">the praises of me,</span>
   <span id="f000211">who had voyaged far from the full moon and dwelt in the Land of Fancy.</span>
   <span id="f000212">So to the sound of melody the White Ship sailed into the mist betwixt the basalt pillars of the West.</span>
   <span id="f000213">And when the music ceased and the mist lifted,</span>
   <span id="f000214">we beheld not the Land of Cathuria,</span>
   <span id="f000215">but a swift-rushing resistless sea,</span>
   <span id="f000216">over which our helpless barque was borne toward some unknown goal.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Soon to our ears came the distant thunder of falling waters,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and to our eyes appeared on the far horizon ahead the titanic spray of a monstrous cataract,</span>
   <span id="f000219">wherein the oceans of the world drop down to abysmal nothingness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">Then did the bearded man say to me,</span>
   <span id="f000221">with tears on his cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000222">“We have rejected the beautiful Land of Sona-Nyl,</span>
   <span id="f000223">which we may never behold again.</span>
   <span id="f000224">The Gods are greater than men,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and they have conquered.” And I closed my eyes before the crash that I knew would come,</span>
   <span id="f000226">shutting out the sight of the celestial bird which flapped its mocking blue wings over the brink of the torrent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">Out of that crash came darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and I heard the shrieking of men and of things which were not men.</span>
   <span id="f000229">From the East tempestuous winds arose,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and chilled me as I crouched on the slab of damp stone which had risen beneath my feet.</span>
   <span id="f000231">Then as I heard another crash I opened my eyes and beheld myself upon the platform of that lighthouse whence I had sailed so many aeons ago.</span>
   <span id="f000232">In the darkness below there loomed the vast blurred outlines of a vessel breaking up on the cruel rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and as I glanced out over the waste I saw that the light had failed for the first time since my grandfather had assumed its care.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">And in the later watches of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000235">when I went within the tower,</span>
   <span id="f000236">I saw on the wall a calendar which still remained as when I had left it at the hour I sailed away.</span>
   <span id="f000237">With the dawn I descended the tower and looked for wreckage upon the rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000238">but what I found was only this:</span>
   <span id="f000239">a strange dead bird whose hue was as of the azure sky,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and a single shattered spar,</span>
   <span id="f000241">of a whiteness greater than that of the wave-tips or of the mountain snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">And thereafter the ocean told me its secrets no more;</span>
   <span id="f000243">and though many times since has the moon shone full and high in the heavens,</span>
   <span id="f000244">the White Ship from the South came never again.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

