<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Nyarlathotep</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Nyarlathotep…</span>
   <span id="f000003">the crawling chaos…</span>
   <span id="f000004">I am the last…</span>
   <span id="f000005">I will tell the audient void…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000006">I do not recall distinctly when it began,</span>
   <span id="f000007">but it was months ago.</span>
   <span id="f000008">The general tension was horrible.</span>
   <span id="f000009">To a season of political and social upheaval was added a strange and brooding apprehension of hideous physical danger;</span>
   <span id="f000010">a danger widespread and all-embracing,</span>
   <span id="f000011">such a danger as may be imagined only in the most terrible phantasms of the night.</span>
   <span id="f000012">I recall that the people went about with pale and worried faces,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and whispered warnings and prophecies which no one dared consciously repeat or acknowledge to himself that he had heard.</span>
   <span id="f000014">A sense of monstrous guilt was upon the land,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and out of the abysses between the stars swept chill currents that made men shiver in dark and lonely places.</span>
   <span id="f000016">There was a demoniac alteration in the sequence of the seasons the autumn heat lingered fearsomely,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and everyone felt that the world and perhaps the universe had passed from the control of known gods or forces to that of gods or forces which were unknown.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">And it was then that Nyarlathotep came out of Egypt.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Who he was,</span>
   <span id="f000020">none could tell,</span>
   <span id="f000021">but he was of the old native blood and looked like a Pharaoh.</span>
   <span id="f000022">The fellahin knelt when they saw him,</span>
   <span id="f000023">yet could not say why.</span>
   <span id="f000024">He said he had risen up out of the blackness of twenty-seven centuries,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and that he had heard messages from places not on this planet.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Into the lands of civilisation came Nyarlathotep,</span>
   <span id="f000027">swarthy,</span>
   <span id="f000028">slender,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and sinister,</span>
   <span id="f000030">always buying strange instruments of glass and metal and combining them into instruments yet stranger.</span>
   <span id="f000031">He spoke much of the sciences of electricity and psychology and gave exhibitions of power which sent his spectators away speechless,</span>
   <span id="f000032">yet which swelled his fame to exceeding magnitude.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Men advised one another to see Nyarlathotep,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and shuddered.</span>
   <span id="f000035">And where Nyarlathotep went,</span>
   <span id="f000036">rest vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000037">for the small hours were rent with the screams of nightmare.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Never before had the screams of nightmare been such a public problem;</span>
   <span id="f000039">now the wise men almost wished they could forbid sleep in the small hours,</span>
   <span id="f000040">that the shrieks of cities might less horribly disturb the pale,</span>
   <span id="f000041">pitying moon as it glimmered on green waters gliding under bridges,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and old steeples crumbling against a sickly sky.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">I remember when Nyarlathotep came to my city the great,</span>
   <span id="f000044">the old,</span>
   <span id="f000045">the terrible city of unnumbered crimes.</span>
   <span id="f000046">My friend had told me of him,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and of the impelling fascination and allurement of his revelations,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and I burned with eagerness to explore his uttermost mysteries.</span>
   <span id="f000049">My friend said they were horrible and impressive beyond my most fevered imaginings;</span>
   <span id="f000050">and what was thrown on a screen in the darkened room prophesied things none but Nyarlathotep dared prophesy,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and in the sputter of his sparks there was taken from men that which had never been taken before yet which showed only in the eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000052">And I heard it hinted abroad that those who knew Nyarlathotep looked on sights which others saw not.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">It was in the hot autumn that I went through the night with the restless crowds to see Nyarlathotep;</span>
   <span id="f000054">through the stifling night and up the endless stairs into the choking room.</span>
   <span id="f000055">And shadowed on a screen,</span>
   <span id="f000056">I saw hooded forms amidst ruins,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and yellow evil faces peering from behind fallen monuments.</span>
   <span id="f000058">And I saw the world battling against blackness;</span>
   <span id="f000059">against the waves of destruction from ultimate space;</span>
   <span id="f000060">whirling,</span>
   <span id="f000061">churning,</span>
   <span id="f000062">struggling around the dimming,</span>
   <span id="f000063">cooling sun.</span>
   <span id="f000064">Then the sparks played amazingly around the heads of the spectators,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and hair stood up on end whilst shadows more grotesque than I can tell came out and squatted on the heads.</span>
   <span id="f000066">And when I,</span>
   <span id="f000067">who was colder and more scientific than the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000068">mumbled a trembling protest about imposture and static electricity,</span>
   <span id="f000069">Nyarlathotep drove us all out,</span>
   <span id="f000070">down the dizzy stairs into the damp,</span>
   <span id="f000071">hot,</span>
   <span id="f000072">deserted midnight streets.</span>
   <span id="f000073">I screamed aloud that I was not afraid;</span>
   <span id="f000074">that I never could be afraid;</span>
   <span id="f000075">and others screamed with me for solace.</span>
   <span id="f000076">We swore to one another that the city was exactly the same,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and still alive;</span>
   <span id="f000078">and when the electric lights began to fade we cursed the company over and over again,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and laughed at the queer faces we made.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">I believe we felt something coming down from the greenish moon,</span>
   <span id="f000081">for when we began to depend on its light we drifted into curious involuntary marching formations and seemed to know our destinations though we dared not think of them.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Once we looked at the pavement and found the blocks loose and displaced by grass,</span>
   <span id="f000083">with scarce a line of rusted metal to show where the tramways had run.</span>
   <span id="f000084">And again we saw a tram-car,</span>
   <span id="f000085">lone,</span>
   <span id="f000086">windowless,</span>
   <span id="f000087">dilapidated,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and almost on its side.</span>
   <span id="f000089">When we gazed around the horizon,</span>
   <span id="f000090">we could not find the third tower by the river,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and noticed that the silhouette of the second tower was ragged at the top.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Then we split up into narrow columns,</span>
   <span id="f000093">each of which seemed drawn in a different direction.</span>
   <span id="f000094">One disappeared in a narrow alley to the left,</span>
   <span id="f000095">leaving only the echo of a shocking moan.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Another filed down a weed-choked subway entrance,</span>
   <span id="f000097">howling with a laughter that was mad.</span>
   <span id="f000098">My own column was sucked toward the open country,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and presently I felt a chill which was not of the hot autumn;</span>
   <span id="f000100">for as we stalked out on the dark moor,</span>
   <span id="f000101">we beheld around us the hellish moon-glitter of evil snows.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Trackless,</span>
   <span id="f000103">inexplicable snows,</span>
   <span id="f000104">swept asunder in one direction only,</span>
   <span id="f000105">where lay a gulf all the blacker for its glittering walls.</span>
   <span id="f000106">The column seemed very thin indeed as it plodded dreamily into the gulf.</span>
   <span id="f000107">I lingered behind,</span>
   <span id="f000108">for the black rift in the green-litten snow was frightful,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and I thought I had heard the reverberations of a disquieting wail as my companions vanished;</span>
   <span id="f000110">but my power to linger was slight.</span>
   <span id="f000111">As if beckoned by those who had gone before,</span>
   <span id="f000112">I half-floated between the titanic snowdrifts,</span>
   <span id="f000113">quivering and afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000114">into the sightless vortex of the unimaginable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">Screamingly sentient,</span>
   <span id="f000116">dumbly delirious,</span>
   <span id="f000117">only the gods that were can tell.</span>
   <span id="f000118">A sickened,</span>
   <span id="f000119">sensitive shadow writhing in hands that are not hands,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and whirled blindly past ghastly midnights of rotting creation,</span>
   <span id="f000121">corpses of dead worlds with sores that were cities,</span>
   <span id="f000122">charnel winds that brush the pallid stars and make them flicker low.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Beyond the worlds vague ghosts of monstrous things;</span>
   <span id="f000124">half-seen columns of unsanctifled temples that rest on nameless rocks beneath space and reach up to dizzy vacua above the spheres of light and darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000125">And through this revolting graveyard of the universe the muffled,</span>
   <span id="f000126">maddening beating of drums,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and thin,</span>
   <span id="f000128">monotonous whine of blasphemous flutes from inconceivable,</span>
   <span id="f000129">unlighted chambers beyond Time;</span>
   <span id="f000130">the detestable pounding and piping whereunto dance slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000131">awkwardly,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and absurdly the gigantic,</span>
   <span id="f000133">tenebrous ultimate gods the blind,</span>
   <span id="f000134">voiceless,</span>
   <span id="f000135">mindless gargoyles whose soul is Nyarlathotep.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

