<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Alchemist</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">High up,</span>
   <span id="f000003">crowning the grassy summit of a swelling mount whose sides are wooded near the base with the gnarled trees of the primeval forest stands the old chateau of my ancestors.</span>
   <span id="f000004">For centuries its lofty battlements have frowned down upon the wild and rugged countryside about,</span>
   <span id="f000005">serving as a home and stronghold for the proud house whose honored line is older even than the moss-grown castle walls.</span>
   <span id="f000006">These ancient turrets,</span>
   <span id="f000007">stained by the storms of generations and crumbling under the slow yet mighty pressure of time,</span>
   <span id="f000008">formed in the ages of feudalism one of the most dreaded and formidable fortresses in all France.</span>
   <span id="f000009">From its machicolated parapets and mounted battlements Barons,</span>
   <span id="f000010">Counts,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and even Kings had been defied,</span>
   <span id="f000012">yet never had its spacious halls resounded to the footsteps of the invader.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">But since those glorious years,</span>
   <span id="f000014">all is changed.</span>
   <span id="f000015">A poverty but little above the level of dire want,</span>
   <span id="f000016">together with a pride of name that forbids its alleviation by the pursuits of commercial life,</span>
   <span id="f000017">have prevented the scions of our line from maintaining their estates in pristine splendour;</span>
   <span id="f000018">and the falling stones of the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000019">the overgrown vegetation in the parks,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the dry and dusty moat,</span>
   <span id="f000021">the ill-paved courtyards,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and toppling towers without,</span>
   <span id="f000023">as well as the sagging floors,</span>
   <span id="f000024">the worm-eaten wainscots,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and the faded tapestries within,</span>
   <span id="f000026">all tell a gloomy tale of fallen grandeur.</span>
   <span id="f000027">As the ages passed,</span>
   <span id="f000028">first one,</span>
   <span id="f000029">then another of the four great turrets were left to ruin,</span>
   <span id="f000030">until at last but a single tower housed the sadly reduced descendants of the once mighty lords of the estate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">It was in one of the vast and gloomy chambers of this remaining tower that I,</span>
   <span id="f000032">Antoine,</span>
   <span id="f000033">last of the unhappy and accursed Counts de C-,</span>
   <span id="f000034">first saw the light of day,</span>
   <span id="f000035">ninety long years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000036">Within these walls and amongst the dark and shadowy forests,</span>
   <span id="f000037">the wild ravines and grottos of the hillside below,</span>
   <span id="f000038">were spent the first years of my troubled life.</span>
   <span id="f000039">My parents I never knew.</span>
   <span id="f000040">My father had been killed at the age of thirty-two,</span>
   <span id="f000041">a month before I was born,</span>
   <span id="f000042">by the fall of a stone somehow dislodged from one of the deserted parapets of the castle.</span>
   <span id="f000043">And my mother having died at my birth,</span>
   <span id="f000044">my care and education devolved solely upon one remaining servitor,</span>
   <span id="f000045">an old and trusted man of considerable intelligence,</span>
   <span id="f000046">whose name I remember as Pierre.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I was an only child and the lack of companionship which this fact entailed upon me was augmented by the strange care exercised by my aged guardian,</span>
   <span id="f000048">in excluding me from the society of the peasant children whose abodes were scattered here and there upon the plains that surround the base of the hill.</span>
   <span id="f000049">At that time,</span>
   <span id="f000050">Pierre said that this restriction was imposed upon me because my noble birth placed me above association with such plebeian company.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Now I know that its real object was to keep from my ears the idle tales of the dread curse upon our line that were nightly told and magnified by the simple tenantry as they conversed in hushed accents in the glow of their cottage hearths.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">Thus isolated,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and thrown upon my own resources,</span>
   <span id="f000054">I spent the hours of my childhood in poring over the ancient tomes that filled the shadow haunted library of the chateau,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and in roaming without aim or purpose through the perpetual dust of the spectral wood that clothes the side of the hill near its foot.</span>
   <span id="f000056">It was perhaps an effect of such surroundings that my mind early acquired a shade of melancholy.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Those studies and pursuits which partake of the dark and occult in nature most strongly claimed my attention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">Of my own race I was permitted to learn singularly little,</span>
   <span id="f000059">yet what small knowledge of it I was able to gain seemed to depress me much.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Perhaps it was at first only the manifest reluctance of my old preceptor to discuss with me my paternal ancestry that gave rise to the terror which I ever felt at the mention of my great house,</span>
   <span id="f000061">yet as I grew out of childhood,</span>
   <span id="f000062">I was able to piece together disconnected fragments of discourse,</span>
   <span id="f000063">let slip from the unwilling tongue which had begun to falter in approaching senility,</span>
   <span id="f000064">that had a sort of relation to a certain circumstance which I had always deemed strange,</span>
   <span id="f000065">but which now became dimly terrible.</span>
   <span id="f000066">The circumstance to which I allude is the early age at which all the Counts of my line had met their end.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Whilst I had hitherto considered this but a natural attribute of a family of short-lived men,</span>
   <span id="f000068">I afterward pondered long upon these premature deaths,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and began to connect them with the wanderings of the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000070">who often spoke of a curse which for centuries had prevented the lives of the holders of my title from much exceeding the span of thirty-two years.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Upon my twenty-first birthday,</span>
   <span id="f000072">the aged Pierre gave to me a family document which he said had for many generations been handed down from father to son,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and continued by each possessor.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Its contents were of the most startling nature,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and its perusal confirmed the gravest of my apprehensions.</span>
   <span id="f000076">At this time,</span>
   <span id="f000077">my belief in the supernatural was firm and deep-seated,</span>
   <span id="f000078">else I should have dismissed with scorn the incredible narrative unfolded before my eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">The paper carried me back to the days of the thirteenth century,</span>
   <span id="f000080">when the old castle in which I sat had been a feared and impregnable fortress.</span>
   <span id="f000081">It told of a certain ancient man who had once dwelled on our estates,</span>
   <span id="f000082">a person of no small accomplishments,</span>
   <span id="f000083">though little above the rank of peasant,</span>
   <span id="f000084">by name,</span>
   <span id="f000085">Michel,</span>
   <span id="f000086">usually designated by the surname of Mauvais,</span>
   <span id="f000087">the Evil,</span>
   <span id="f000088">on account of his sinister reputation.</span>
   <span id="f000089">He had studied beyond the custom of his kind,</span>
   <span id="f000090">seeking such things as the Philosopher’s Stone or the Elixir of Eternal Life,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and was reputed wise in the terrible secrets of Black Magic and Alchemy.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Michel Mauvais had one son,</span>
   <span id="f000093">named Charles,</span>
   <span id="f000094">a youth as proficient as himself in the hidden arts,</span>
   <span id="f000095">who had therefore been called Le Sorcier,</span>
   <span id="f000096">or the Wizard.</span>
   <span id="f000097">This pair,</span>
   <span id="f000098">shunned by all honest folk,</span>
   <span id="f000099">were suspected of the most hideous practices.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Old Michel was said to have burnt his wife alive as a sacrifice to the Devil,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and the unaccountable disappearance of many small peasant children was laid at the dreaded door of these two.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Yet through the dark natures of the father and son ran one redeeming ray of humanity;</span>
   <span id="f000103">the evil old man loved his offspring with fierce intensity,</span>
   <span id="f000104">whilst the youth had for his parent a more than filial affection.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">One night the castle on the hill was thrown into the wildest confusion by the vanishment of young Godfrey,</span>
   <span id="f000106">son to Henri,</span>
   <span id="f000107">the Count.</span>
   <span id="f000108">A searching party,</span>
   <span id="f000109">headed by the frantic father,</span>
   <span id="f000110">invaded the cottage of the sorcerers and there came upon old Michel Mauvais,</span>
   <span id="f000111">busy over a huge and violently boiling cauldron.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Without certain cause,</span>
   <span id="f000113">in the ungoverned madness of fury and despair,</span>
   <span id="f000114">the Count laid hands on the aged wizard,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and ere he released his murderous hold,</span>
   <span id="f000116">his victim was no more.</span>
   <span id="f000117">Meanwhile,</span>
   <span id="f000118">joyful servants were proclaiming the finding of young Godfrey in a distant and unused chamber of the great edifice,</span>
   <span id="f000119">telling too late that poor Michel had been killed in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000120">As the Count and his associates turned away from the lowly abode of the alchemist,</span>
   <span id="f000121">the form of Charles Le Sorcier appeared through the trees.</span>
   <span id="f000122">The excited chatter of the menials standing about told him what had occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000123">yet he seemed at first unmoved at his father’s fate.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000125">slowly advancing to meet the Count,</span>
   <span id="f000126">he pronounced in dull yet terrible accents the curse that ever afterward haunted the house of C-.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000127">’May ne’er a noble of thy murd’rous line<br /></span>
   <span id="f000128">Survive to reach a greater age than thine!’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000129">spake he,</span>
   <span id="f000130">when,</span>
   <span id="f000131">suddenly leaping backwards into the black woods,</span>
   <span id="f000132">he drew from his tunic a phial of colourless liquid which he threw into the face of his father’s slayer as he disappeared behind the inky curtain of the night.</span>
   <span id="f000133">The Count died without utterance,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and was buried the next day,</span>
   <span id="f000135">but little more than two and thirty years from the hour of his birth.</span>
   <span id="f000136">No trace of the assassin could be found,</span>
   <span id="f000137">though relentless bands of peasants scoured the neighboring woods and the meadowland around the hill.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">Thus time and the want of a reminder dulled the memory of the curse in the minds of the late Count’s family,</span>
   <span id="f000139">so that when Godfrey,</span>
   <span id="f000140">innocent cause of the whole tragedy and now bearing the title,</span>
   <span id="f000141">was killed by an arrow whilst hunting at the age of thirty-two,</span>
   <span id="f000142">there were no thoughts save those of grief at his demise.</span>
   <span id="f000143">But when,</span>
   <span id="f000144">years afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000145">the next young Count,</span>
   <span id="f000146">Robert by name,</span>
   <span id="f000147">was found dead in a nearby field of no apparent cause,</span>
   <span id="f000148">the peasants told in whispers that their seigneur had but lately passed his thirty-second birthday when surprised by early death.</span>
   <span id="f000149">Louis,</span>
   <span id="f000150">son to Robert,</span>
   <span id="f000151">was found drowned in the moat at the same fateful age,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and thus down through the centuries ran the ominous chronicle:</span>
   <span id="f000153">Henris,</span>
   <span id="f000154">Roberts,</span>
   <span id="f000155">Antoines,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and Armands snatched from happy and virtuous lives when little below the age of their unfortunate ancestor at his murder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">That I had left at most but eleven years of further existence was made certain to me by the words which I had read.</span>
   <span id="f000158">My life,</span>
   <span id="f000159">previously held at small value,</span>
   <span id="f000160">now became dearer to me each day,</span>
   <span id="f000161">as I delved deeper and deeper into the mysteries of the hidden world of black magic.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Isolated as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000163">modern science had produced no impression upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and I laboured as in the Middle Ages,</span>
   <span id="f000165">as wrapt as had been old Michel and young Charles themselves in the acquisition of demonological and alchemical learning.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Yet read as I might,</span>
   <span id="f000167">in no manner could I account for the strange curse upon my line.</span>
   <span id="f000168">In unusually rational moments I would even go so far as to seek a natural explanation,</span>
   <span id="f000169">attributing the early deaths of my ancestors to the sinister Charles Le Sorcier and his heirs;</span>
   <span id="f000170">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000171">having found upon careful inquiry that there were no known descendants of the alchemist,</span>
   <span id="f000172">I would fall back to occult studies,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and once more endeavor to find a spell,</span>
   <span id="f000174">that would release my house from its terrible burden.</span>
   <span id="f000175">Upon one thing I was absolutely resolved.</span>
   <span id="f000176">I should never wed,</span>
   <span id="f000177">for,</span>
   <span id="f000178">since no other branch of my family was in existence,</span>
   <span id="f000179">I might thus end the curse with myself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">As I drew near the age of thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000181">old Pierre was called to the land beyond.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Alone I buried him beneath the stones of the courtyard about which he had loved to wander in life.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Thus was I left to ponder on myself as the only human creature within the great fortress,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and in my utter solitude my mind began to cease its vain protest against the impending doom,</span>
   <span id="f000185">to become almost reconciled to the fate which so many of my ancestors had met.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Much of my time was now occupied in the exploration of the ruined and abandoned halls and towers of the old chateau,</span>
   <span id="f000187">which in youth fear had caused me to shun,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and some of which old Pierre had once told me had not been trodden by human foot for over four centuries.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Strange and awesome were many of the objects I encountered.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Furniture,</span>
   <span id="f000191">covered by the dust of ages and crumbling with the rot of long dampness,</span>
   <span id="f000192">met my eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Cobwebs in a profusion never before seen by me were spun everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and huge bats flapped their bony and uncanny wings on all sides of the otherwise untenanted gloom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">Of my exact age,</span>
   <span id="f000196">even down to days and hours,</span>
   <span id="f000197">I kept a most careful record,</span>
   <span id="f000198">for each movement of the pendulum of the massive clock in the library told off so much of my doomed existence.</span>
   <span id="f000199">At length I approached that time which I had so long viewed with apprehension.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Since most of my ancestors had been seized some little while before they reached the exact age of Count Henri at his end,</span>
   <span id="f000201">I was every moment on the watch for the coming of the unknown death.</span>
   <span id="f000202">In what strange form the curse should overtake me,</span>
   <span id="f000203">I knew not;</span>
   <span id="f000204">but I was resolved at least that it should not find me a cowardly or a passive victim.</span>
   <span id="f000205">With new vigour I applied myself to my examination of the old chateau and its contents.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">It was upon one of the longest of all my excursions of discovery in the deserted portion of the castle,</span>
   <span id="f000207">less than a week before that fatal hour which I felt must mark the utmost limit of my stay on earth,</span>
   <span id="f000208">beyond which I could have not even the slightest hope of continuing to draw breath that I came upon the culminating event of my whole life.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I had spent the better part of the morning in climbing up and down half ruined staircases in one of the most dilapidated of the ancient turrets.</span>
   <span id="f000210">As the afternoon progressed,</span>
   <span id="f000211">I sought the lower levels,</span>
   <span id="f000212">descending into what appeared to be either a mediaeval place of confinement,</span>
   <span id="f000213">or a more recently excavated storehouse for gunpowder.</span>
   <span id="f000214">As I slowly traversed the nitre-encrusted passageway at the foot of the last staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000215">the paving became very damp,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and soon I saw by the light of my flickering torch that a blank,</span>
   <span id="f000217">water-stained wall impeded my journey.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Turning to retrace my steps,</span>
   <span id="f000219">my eye fell upon a small trapdoor with a ring,</span>
   <span id="f000220">which lay directly beneath my foot.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Pausing,</span>
   <span id="f000222">I succeeded with difficulty in raising it,</span>
   <span id="f000223">whereupon there was revealed a black aperture,</span>
   <span id="f000224">exhaling noxious fumes which caused my torch to sputter,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and disclosing in the unsteady glare the top of a flight of stone steps.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">As soon as the torch which I lowered into the repellent depths burned freely and steadily,</span>
   <span id="f000227">I commenced my descent.</span>
   <span id="f000228">The steps were many,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and led to a narrow stone-flagged passage which I knew must be far underground.</span>
   <span id="f000230">This passage proved of great length,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and terminated in a massive oaken door,</span>
   <span id="f000232">dripping with the moisture of the place,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and stoutly resisting all my attempts to open it.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Ceasing after a time my efforts in this direction,</span>
   <span id="f000235">I had proceeded back some distance toward the steps when there suddenly fell to my experience one of the most profound and maddening shocks capable of reception by the human mind.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Without warning,</span>
   <span id="f000237">I heard the heavy door behind me creak slowly open upon its rusted hinges.</span>
   <span id="f000238">My immediate sensations were incapable of analysis.</span>
   <span id="f000239">To be confronted in a place as thoroughly deserted as I had deemed the old castle with evidence of the presence of man or spirit produced in my brain a horror of the most acute description.</span>
   <span id="f000240">When at last I turned and faced the seat of the sound,</span>
   <span id="f000241">my eyes must have started from their orbits at the sight that they beheld.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">There in the ancient Gothic doorway stood a human figure.</span>
   <span id="f000243">It was that of a man clad in a skull-cap and long mediaeval tunic of dark colour.</span>
   <span id="f000244">His long hair and flowing beard were of a terrible and intense black hue,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and of incredible profusion.</span>
   <span id="f000246">His forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000247">high beyond the usual dimensions;</span>
   <span id="f000248">his cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000249">deep-sunken and heavily lined with wrinkles;</span>
   <span id="f000250">and his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000251">long,</span>
   <span id="f000252">claw-like,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and gnarled,</span>
   <span id="f000254">were of such a deadly marble-like whiteness as I have never elsewhere seen in man.</span>
   <span id="f000255">His figure,</span>
   <span id="f000256">lean to the proportions of a skeleton,</span>
   <span id="f000257">was strangely bent and almost lost within the voluminous folds of his peculiar garment.</span>
   <span id="f000258">But strangest of all were his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000259">twin caves of abysmal blackness,</span>
   <span id="f000260">profound in expression of understanding,</span>
   <span id="f000261">yet inhuman in degree of wickedness.</span>
   <span id="f000262">These were now fixed upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000263">piercing my soul with their hatred,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and rooting me to the spot whereon I stood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">At last the figure spoke in a rumbling voice that chilled me through with its dull hollowness and latent malevolence.</span>
   <span id="f000266">The language in which the discourse was clothed was that debased form of Latin in use amongst the more learned men of the Middle Ages,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and made familiar to me by my prolonged researches into the works of the old alchemists and demonologists.</span>
   <span id="f000268">The apparition spoke of the curse which had hovered over my house,</span>
   <span id="f000269">told me of my coming end,</span>
   <span id="f000270">dwelt on the wrong perpetrated by my ancestor against old Michel Mauvais,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and gloated over the revenge of Charles Le Sorcier.</span>
   <span id="f000272">He told how young Charles has escaped into the night,</span>
   <span id="f000273">returning in after years to kill Godfrey the heir with an arrow just as he approached the age which had been his father’s at his assassination;</span>
   <span id="f000274">how he had secretly returned to the estate and established himself,</span>
   <span id="f000275">unknown,</span>
   <span id="f000276">in the even then deserted subterranean chamber whose doorway now framed the hideous narrator,</span>
   <span id="f000277">how he had seized Robert,</span>
   <span id="f000278">son of Godfrey,</span>
   <span id="f000279">in a field,</span>
   <span id="f000280">forced poison down his throat,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and left him to die at the age of thirty-two,</span>
   <span id="f000282">thus maintaing the foul provisions of his vengeful curse.</span>
   <span id="f000283">At this point I was left to imagine the solution of the greatest mystery of all,</span>
   <span id="f000284">how the curse had been fulfilled since that time when Charles Le Sorcier must in the course of nature have died,</span>
   <span id="f000285">for the man digressed into an account of the deep alchemical studies of the two wizards,</span>
   <span id="f000286">father and son,</span>
   <span id="f000287">speaking most particularly of the researches of Charles Le Sorcier concerning the elixir which should grant to him who partook of it eternal life and youth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">His enthusiasm had seemed for the moment to remove from his terrible eyes the black malevolence that had first so haunted me,</span>
   <span id="f000289">but suddenly the fiendish glare returned and,</span>
   <span id="f000290">with a shocking sound like the hissing of a serpent,</span>
   <span id="f000291">the stranger raised a glass phial with the evident intent of ending my life as had Charles Le Sorcier,</span>
   <span id="f000292">six hundred years before,</span>
   <span id="f000293">ended that of my ancestor.</span>
   <span id="f000294">Prompted by some preserving instinct of self-defense,</span>
   <span id="f000295">I broke through the spell that had hitherto held me immovable,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and flung my now dying torch at the creature who menaced my existence.</span>
   <span id="f000297">I heard the phial break harmlessly against the stones of the passage as the tunic of the strange man caught fire and lit the horrid scene with a ghastly radiance.</span>
   <span id="f000298">The shriek of fright and impotent malice emitted by the would-be assassin proved too much for my already shaken nerves,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and I fell prone upon the slimy floor in a total faint.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">When at last my senses returned,</span>
   <span id="f000301">all was frightfully dark,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000303">remembering what had occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000304">shrank from the idea of beholding any more;</span>
   <span id="f000305">yet curiosity over-mastered all.</span>
   <span id="f000306">Who,</span>
   <span id="f000307">I asked myself,</span>
   <span id="f000308">was this man of evil,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and how came he within the castle walls?</span>
   <span id="f000310">Why should he seek to avenge the death of Michel Mauvais,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and how bad the curse been carried on through all the long centuries since the time of Charles Le Sorcier?</span>
   <span id="f000312">The dread of years was lifted from my shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000313">for I knew that he whom I had felled was the source of all my danger from the curse;</span>
   <span id="f000314">and now that I was free,</span>
   <span id="f000315">I burned with the desire to learn more of the sinister thing which had haunted my line for centuries,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and made of my own youth one long-continued nightmare.</span>
   <span id="f000317">Determined upon further exploration,</span>
   <span id="f000318">I felt in my pockets for flint and steel,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and lit the unused torch which I had with me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">First of all,</span>
   <span id="f000321">new light revealed the distorted and blackened form of the mysterious stranger.</span>
   <span id="f000322">The hideous eyes were now closed.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Disliking the sight,</span>
   <span id="f000324">I turned away and entered the chamber beyond the Gothic door.</span>
   <span id="f000325">Here I found what seemed much like an alchemist’s laboratory.</span>
   <span id="f000326">In one corner was an immense pile of shining yellow metal that sparkled gorgeously in the light of the torch.</span>
   <span id="f000327">It may have been gold,</span>
   <span id="f000328">but I did not pause to examine it,</span>
   <span id="f000329">for I was strangely affected by that which I had undergone.</span>
   <span id="f000330">At the farther end of the apartment was an opening leading out into one of the many wild ravines of the dark hillside forest.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Filled with wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000332">yet now realizing how the man had obtained access to the chauteau,</span>
   <span id="f000333">I proceeded to return.</span>
   <span id="f000334">I had intended to pass by the remains of the stranger with averted face but,</span>
   <span id="f000335">as I approached the body,</span>
   <span id="f000336">I seemed to hear emanating from it a faint sound,</span>
   <span id="f000337">as though life were not yet wholly extinct.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Aghast,</span>
   <span id="f000339">I turned to examine the charred and shrivelled figure on the floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">Then all at once the horrible eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000341">blacker even than the seared face in which they were set,</span>
   <span id="f000342">opened wide with an expression which I was unable to interpret.</span>
   <span id="f000343">The cracked lips tried to frame words which I could not well understand.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Once I caught the name of Charles Le Sorcier,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and again I fancied that the words ’years’ and ’curse’ issued from the twisted mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000346">Still I was at a loss to gather the purport of his disconnnected speech.</span>
   <span id="f000347">At my evident ignorance of his meaning,</span>
   <span id="f000348">the pitchy eyes once more flashed malevolently at me,</span>
   <span id="f000349">until,</span>
   <span id="f000350">helpless as I saw my opponent to be,</span>
   <span id="f000351">I trembled as I watched him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">Suddenly the wretch,</span>
   <span id="f000353">animated with his last burst of strength,</span>
   <span id="f000354">raised his piteous head from the damp and sunken pavement.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000356">as I remained,</span>
   <span id="f000357">paralyzed with fear,</span>
   <span id="f000358">he found his voice and in his dying breath screamed forth those words which have ever afterward haunted my days and nights.</span>
   <span id="f000359">’Fool!’ he shrieked,</span>
   <span id="f000360">’Can you not guess my secret?</span>
   <span id="f000361">Have you no brain whereby you may recognize the will which has through six long centuries fulfilled the dreadful curse upon the house?</span>
   <span id="f000362">Have I not told you of the great elixir of eternal life?</span>
   <span id="f000363">Know you not how the secret of Alchemy was solved?</span>
   <span id="f000364">I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000365">it is I!</span>
   <span id="f000366">I!</span>
   <span id="f000367">I!</span>
   <span id="f000368">that have lived for six hundred years to maintain my revenge,</span>
   <span id="f000369">for I am Charles Le Sorcier!’</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

