<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Shunned House</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">From even the greatest of horrors irony is seldom absent.</span>
   <span id="f000004">Some times it enters directly into the composition of the events,</span>
   <span id="f000005">while sometimes it relates only to their fortuitous position among persons and places.</span>
   <span id="f000006">The latter sort is splendidly exemplified by a case in the ancient city of Providence,</span>
   <span id="f000007">where in the late forties Edgar Allan Poe used to sojourn often during his unsuccessful wooing of the gifted poetess,</span>
   <span id="f000008">Mrs.&#160;Whitman.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Poe generally stopped at the Mansion House in Benefit Street - the renamed Golden Ball Inn whose roof has sheltered Washington,</span>
   <span id="f000010">Jefferson,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and Lafayette - and his favourite walk led northward along the same street to Mrs.&#160;Whitman’s home and the neighbouring hillside churchyard of St.&#160;John’s whose hidden expanse of eighteenth-century gravestones had for him a peculiar fascination.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">Now the irony is this.</span>
   <span id="f000013">In this walk,</span>
   <span id="f000014">so many times repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000015">the world’s greatest master of the terrible and the bizarre was obliged to pass a particular house on the eastern side of the street;</span>
   <span id="f000016">a dingy,</span>
   <span id="f000017">antiquated structure perched on the abruptly rising side hill,</span>
   <span id="f000018">with a great unkept yard dating from a time when the region was partly open country.</span>
   <span id="f000019">It does not appear that he ever wrote or spoke of it,</span>
   <span id="f000020">nor is there any evidence that he even noticed it.</span>
   <span id="f000021">And yet that house,</span>
   <span id="f000022">to the two persons in possession of certain information,</span>
   <span id="f000023">equals or outranks in horror the wildest phantasy of the genius who so often passed it unknowingly,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and stands starkly leering as a symbol of all that is unutterably hideous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">The house was - and for that matter still is - of a kind to attract the attention of the curious.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Originally a farm or semi-farm building,</span>
   <span id="f000027">it followed the average New England colonial lines of the middle eighteenth century - the prosperous peaked-roof sort,</span>
   <span id="f000028">with two stories and dormerless attic,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and with the Georgian doorway and interior paneling dictated by the progress of taste at that time.</span>
   <span id="f000030">It faced south,</span>
   <span id="f000031">with one gable and buried to the lower windows in the east ward rising hill,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and the other exposed to the foundations toward the street.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Its construction,</span>
   <span id="f000034">over a century and a half ago,</span>
   <span id="f000035">had followed the grading and straightening of the road in that especial vicinity;</span>
   <span id="f000036">for Benefit Street - at first called Back Street - was laid out as a lane winding amongst the graveyards of the first settlers,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and straightened only when the removal of the bodies to the North Burial Ground made it decently possible to cut through the old family plots.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">At the start,</span>
   <span id="f000039">the western wall had lain some twenty feet up a precipitous lawn from the roadway;</span>
   <span id="f000040">but a widening of the street at about the time of the Revolution sheared off most of the intervening space,</span>
   <span id="f000041">exposing the foundations so that a brick basement wall had to be made,</span>
   <span id="f000042">giving the deep cellar a street frontage with the door and two windows above ground,</span>
   <span id="f000043">close to the new line of public travel.</span>
   <span id="f000044">When the sidewalk was laid out a century ago the last of the intervening space was removed;</span>
   <span id="f000045">and Poe in his walks must have seen only a sheer ascent of dull grey brick flush with the sidewalk and surmounted at a height of ten feet by the antique shingled bulk of the house proper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">The farm-like grounds extended back very deeply up the hill,</span>
   <span id="f000047">al most to Wheaton Street.</span>
   <span id="f000048">The space south of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000049">abutting on Benefit Street,</span>
   <span id="f000050">was of course greatly above the existing sidewalk level,</span>
   <span id="f000051">forming a terrace bounded by a high bank wall of damp,</span>
   <span id="f000052">mossy stone pierced by a steep flight of narrow steps which led inward be tween canyon-like surfaces to the upper region of mangy lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000053">rheumy brick walls,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and neglected gardens whose dismantled cement urns,</span>
   <span id="f000055">rusted kettles fallen from tripods of knotty sticks,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and similar paraphernalia set off the weather beaten front door with its broken fanlight,</span>
   <span id="f000057">rotting Ionic pilasters,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and wormy triangular pediment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">What I heard in my youth about the shunned house was merely that people died there in alarmingly great numbers.</span>
   <span id="f000060">That,</span>
   <span id="f000061">I was told,</span>
   <span id="f000062">was why the original owners had moved out some twenty years after building the place.</span>
   <span id="f000063">It was plainly unhealthy,</span>
   <span id="f000064">perhaps because of the dampness and fungous growth in the cellar,</span>
   <span id="f000065">the general sickish smell,</span>
   <span id="f000066">the draughts of the hallways,</span>
   <span id="f000067">or the quality of the well and pump water.</span>
   <span id="f000068">These things were bad enough,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and these were all that gained belief among the person whom I knew.</span>
   <span id="f000070">Only the notebooks of my antiquarian uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000071">Dr.&#160;Elihu Whipple,</span>
   <span id="f000072">revealed to me at length the darker,</span>
   <span id="f000073">vaguer surmises which formed an undercurrent of folk-</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">lore among old-time servants and humble folk,</span>
   <span id="f000075">surmises which never travelled far,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and which were largely forgotten when Providence grew to be a metropolis with a shifting modern population.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">The general fact is,</span>
   <span id="f000078">that the house was never regarded by the solid part of the community as in any real sense “haunted.” There were no widespread tales of rattling chains,</span>
   <span id="f000079">cold currents of air,</span>
   <span id="f000080">extinguished lights,</span>
   <span id="f000081">or faces at the window.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Extremists sometimes said the house was “unlucky,” but that is as far as even they went.</span>
   <span id="f000083">What was really beyond dispute is that a frightful proportion of persons died there;</span>
   <span id="f000084">or more accurately,</span>
   <span id="f000085">had died there,</span>
   <span id="f000086">since after some peculiar happenings over sixty years ago the building had become deserted through the sheer impossibility of renting it.</span>
   <span id="f000087">These persons were not all cut off suddenly by any one cause;</span>
   <span id="f000088">rather did it seem that their vitality was insidiously sapped,</span>
   <span id="f000089">so that each one died the sooner from whatever tendency to weakness he may have naturally had.</span>
   <span id="f000090">And those who did not die displayed in varying degree a type of anaemia or consumption,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and sometimes a decline of the mental faculties,</span>
   <span id="f000092">which spoke ill for the salubriousness of the building.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Neighbouring houses,</span>
   <span id="f000094">it must be added,</span>
   <span id="f000095">seemed entirely free from the noxious quality.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">This much I knew before my insistent questioning led my uncle to show me the notes which finally embarked us both on our hideous investigation.</span>
   <span id="f000097">In my childhood the shunned house was vacant,</span>
   <span id="f000098">with barren,</span>
   <span id="f000099">gnarled and terrible old trees,</span>
   <span id="f000100">long,</span>
   <span id="f000101">queerly pale grass and nightmarishly misshapen weeds in the high terraced yard where birds never lingered.</span>
   <span id="f000102">We boys used to overrun the place,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and I can still recall my youthful terror not only at the morbid strangeness of this sinister vegetation,</span>
   <span id="f000104">but at the eldritch atmosphere and odour of the dilapidated house,</span>
   <span id="f000105">whose unlocked front door was often entered in quest of shudders.</span>
   <span id="f000106">The small-paned windows were largely broken,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and a nameless air of desolation hung round the precarious panel ling,</span>
   <span id="f000108">shaky interior shutters,</span>
   <span id="f000109">peeling wallpaper,.</span>
   <span id="f000110">falling plaster,</span>
   <span id="f000111">rickety staircases,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and such fragments of battered furniture as still remained.</span>
   <span id="f000113">The dust and cobwebs added their touch of the fearful;</span>
   <span id="f000114">and brave indeed was the boy who would voluntarily ascend the ladder to the attic,</span>
   <span id="f000115">a vast raftered length lighted only by small blinking windows in the gable ends,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and filled with a massed wreckage of chests,</span>
   <span id="f000117">chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and spinning-wheels which infinite years of deposit had shrouded and festooned into monstrous and hellish shapes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">But after all,</span>
   <span id="f000120">the attic was not the most terrible part of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000121">It was the dank,</span>
   <span id="f000122">humid cellar which somehow exerted the strongest repulsion on us,</span>
   <span id="f000123">even though it was wholly above ground on the street side,</span>
   <span id="f000124">with only a thin door and window-pierced brick wall to separate it from the busy sidewalk.</span>
   <span id="f000125">We scarcely knew whether to haunt it in spectral fascination,</span>
   <span id="f000126">or to shun it for the sake of our souls and our sanity.</span>
   <span id="f000127">For one thing,</span>
   <span id="f000128">the bad odour of the house was strongest there;</span>
   <span id="f000129">and for another thing,</span>
   <span id="f000130">we did not like the white fungous growths which occasionally sprang up in rainy summer weather from the hard earth floor.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Those fungi,</span>
   <span id="f000132">grotesquely like the vegetation in the yard outside,</span>
   <span id="f000133">were truly horrible in their outlines;</span>
   <span id="f000134">detest able parodies of toadstools and Indian pipes,</span>
   <span id="f000135">whose like we had never seen in any other situation.</span>
   <span id="f000136">They rotted quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and at one stage became slightly phosphorescent;</span>
   <span id="f000138">so that nocturnal passers-by sometimes spoke of witch-fires glowing behind the broken panes of the foetor-spreading windows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">We never - even in our wildest Hallowe’en moods - visited this cellar by night,</span>
   <span id="f000140">but in some of our daytime visits could detect the phosphorescence,</span>
   <span id="f000141">especially when the day was dark and wet.</span>
   <span id="f000142">There was also a subtler thing we often thought we detected - a very strange thing which was,</span>
   <span id="f000143">however,</span>
   <span id="f000144">merely suggestive at most.</span>
   <span id="f000145">I refer to a sort of cloudy whitish pattern on the dirt floor - a vague,</span>
   <span id="f000146">shifting deposit of mould or nitre which we sometimes thought we could trace amidst the sparse fungous growths near the huge fireplace of the basement kitchen.</span>
   <span id="f000147">Once in a while it struck us that this patch bore an uncanny resemblance to a doubled-up human figure,</span>
   <span id="f000148">though generally no such kinship existed,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and often there was no whitish deposit whatever.</span>
   <span id="f000150">On a certain rainy afternoon when this illusion seemed phenomenally strong,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and when,</span>
   <span id="f000152">in addition,</span>
   <span id="f000153">I had fancied I glimpsed a kind of thin,</span>
   <span id="f000154">yellowish,</span>
   <span id="f000155">shimmering exhalation rising from the nitrous pattern toward the yawning fireplace,</span>
   <span id="f000156">I spoke to my uncle about the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000157">He smiled at this odd conceit,</span>
   <span id="f000158">but it seemed that his smile was tinged with reminiscence.</span>
   <span id="f000159">Later I heard that a similar notion entered into some of the wild ancient tales of the common folk - a notion likewise alluding to ghoulish,</span>
   <span id="f000160">wolfish shapes taken by smoke from the great chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and queer contours assumed by certain of the sinuous tree-roots that thrust their way into the cellar through the loose foundation-stones.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000162">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000163">Not till my adult years did my uncle set before me the notes and data which he had collected concerning the shunned house.</span>
   <span id="f000164">Dr.&#160;Whipple was a sane,</span>
   <span id="f000165">conservative physician of the old school,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and for all his interest in the place was not eager to encourage young thoughts toward the abnormal.</span>
   <span id="f000167">His own view,</span>
   <span id="f000168">postulating simply a building and location of markedly unsanitary qualities,</span>
   <span id="f000169">had nothing to do with abnormality;</span>
   <span id="f000170">but he realized that the very picturesque ness which aroused his own interest would in a boy’s fanciful mind take on all manner of gruesome imaginative associations.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">The doctor was a bachelor;</span>
   <span id="f000172">a white-haired,</span>
   <span id="f000173">clean-shaven,</span>
   <span id="f000174">old- fashioned gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and a local historian of note,</span>
   <span id="f000176">who had often broken a lance with such controversial guardians of tradition as Sidney S.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Rider and Thomas W.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Bicknell.</span>
   <span id="f000179">He lived with one man servant in a Georgian homestead with knocker and iron-railed steps,</span>
   <span id="f000180">balanced eerily on the steep ascent of North Court Street beside the ancient brick court and colony house where his grandfather - a cousin of that celebrated privateersman,</span>
   <span id="f000181">Capt.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Whipple,</span>
   <span id="f000183">who burnt His Majesty’s armed schooner Gaspee in 1772 - had voted in the legislature on May 4,</span>
   <span id="f000184">1776,</span>
   <span id="f000185">for the independence of the Rhode Island Colony.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Around him in the damp,</span>
   <span id="f000187">low-ceiled library with the musty white paneling,</span>
   <span id="f000188">heavy carved overmantel and small-paned,</span>
   <span id="f000189">vine- shaded windows,</span>
   <span id="f000190">were the relics and records of his ancient family,</span>
   <span id="f000191">among which were many dubious allusions to the shunned house in Benefit Street.</span>
   <span id="f000192">That pest spot lies not far.</span>
   <span id="f000193">distant - for Benefit runs ledgewise just above the court house along the precipitous hill up which the first settlement climbed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">When,</span>
   <span id="f000195">in the end,</span>
   <span id="f000196">my insistent pestering and maturing years evoked from my uncle the hoarded lore I sought,</span>
   <span id="f000197">there lay before me a strange enough chronicle.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Long-winded,</span>
   <span id="f000199">statistical,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and drearily genealogical as some of the matter was,</span>
   <span id="f000201">there ran through it a continuous thread of brooding,</span>
   <span id="f000202">tenacious horror and preternatural malevolence which impressed me even more than it had impressed the good doctor.</span>
   <span id="f000203">Separate events fitted together uncannily,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and seemingly irrelevant details held mines of hideous possibilities.</span>
   <span id="f000205">A new and burning curiosity grew in me,</span>
   <span id="f000206">compared to which my boyish curiosity was feeble and inchoate.</span>
   <span id="f000207">The first revelation led to an exhaustive research,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and finally to that shuddering quest which proved so disastrous to myself and mine.</span>
   <span id="f000209">For at last my uncle insisted on joining the search I had commenced,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and after a certain night in that house he did not come away with me.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I am lonely without that gentle soul whose long years were filled only with honour,</span>
   <span id="f000212">virtue,</span>
   <span id="f000213">good taste,</span>
   <span id="f000214">benevolence,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and learning.</span>
   <span id="f000216">I have reared a marble urn to his memory in St.&#160;John’s churchyard - the place that Poe loved - the hidden grove of giant willows on the hill,</span>
   <span id="f000217">where tombs and head stones huddle quietly between the hoary bulk of the church and the houses and bank walls of Benefit Street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">The history of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000219">opening amidst a maze of dates,</span>
   <span id="f000220">revealed no trace of the sinister either about its construction or about the prosperous and honourable family who built it.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Yet from the first a taint of calamity,</span>
   <span id="f000222">soon increased to boding significance,</span>
   <span id="f000223">was apparent.</span>
   <span id="f000224">My uncle’s carefully compiled record began with the building of the structure in 1763,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and followed the theme with an unusual amount of detail.</span>
   <span id="f000226">The shunned house,</span>
   <span id="f000227">it seems,</span>
   <span id="f000228">was first inhabited by William Harris and his wife Rhoby Dexter,</span>
   <span id="f000229">with their children,</span>
   <span id="f000230">Elkanah,</span>
   <span id="f000231">born in 1755,</span>
   <span id="f000232">Abigail,</span>
   <span id="f000233">born in 1757,</span>
   <span id="f000234">William,</span>
   <span id="f000235">Jr.,</span>
   <span id="f000236">born in 1759,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and Ruth,</span>
   <span id="f000238">born in 1761.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Harris was a substantial merchant and seaman in the West India trade,</span>
   <span id="f000240">connected with the firm of Obadiah Brown and his nephews.</span>
   <span id="f000241">After Brown’s death in 1761,</span>
   <span id="f000242">the new firm of Nicholas Brown &amp;</span>
   <span id="f000243">Co.</span>
   <span id="f000244">made him master of the brig Prudence,</span>
   <span id="f000245">providence-built,</span>
   <span id="f000246">of 120 tons,</span>
   <span id="f000247">thus enabling him to erect the new homestead he had desired ever since his marriage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">The site he had chosen - a recently straightened part of the new and fashionable Back Street,</span>
   <span id="f000249">which ran along the side of the hill above crowded Cheapside - was all that could be wished,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and the building did justice to the location.</span>
   <span id="f000251">It was the best that moderate means could afford,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and Harris hastened to move in before the birth of a fifth child which the family expected.</span>
   <span id="f000253">That child,</span>
   <span id="f000254">a boy,</span>
   <span id="f000255">came in December;</span>
   <span id="f000256">but was still-born.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Nor was any child to be born alive in that house for a century and a half.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">The next April sickness occurred among the children,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and Abigail and Ruth died before the month was over.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Dr.&#160;Job Ives diagnosed the trouble as some infantile fever,</span>
   <span id="f000261">though others declared it was more of a mere wasting-away or decline.</span>
   <span id="f000262">It seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000263">in any event,</span>
   <span id="f000264">to be contagious;</span>
   <span id="f000265">for Hannah Bowen,</span>
   <span id="f000266">one of the two servants,</span>
   <span id="f000267">died of it in the following June.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Eli Lideason,</span>
   <span id="f000269">the other servant,</span>
   <span id="f000270">constantly complained of weakness;</span>
   <span id="f000271">and would have returned to his father’s farm in Rehoboth but for a sudden attachment for Mehitabel Pierce,</span>
   <span id="f000272">who was hired to succeed Hannah.</span>
   <span id="f000273">He died the next year - a sad year in deed,</span>
   <span id="f000274">since it marked the death of William Harris himself,</span>
   <span id="f000275">enfeebled as he was by the climate of Martinique,</span>
   <span id="f000276">where his occupation had kept him for considerable periods during the preceding decade.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">The widowed Rhoby Harris never recovered from the shock of her husband’s death,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and the passing of her firstborn Elkanah two years later was the final blow to her reason.</span>
   <span id="f000279">In 1768 she fell victim to a mild form of insanity,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and was thereafter confined to the upper part of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000281">her elder maiden sister,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Mercy Dexter,</span>
   <span id="f000283">having moved in to take charge of the family.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Mercy was a plain,</span>
   <span id="f000285">raw-boned woman of great strength,</span>
   <span id="f000286">but her health visibly declined from the time of her advent.</span>
   <span id="f000287">She was greatly devoted to her unfortunate sister,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and had an especial affection for her only surviving nephew William,</span>
   <span id="f000289">who from a sturdy infant had become a sickly,</span>
   <span id="f000290">spindling lad.</span>
   <span id="f000291">In</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">this year the servant Mehitabel died,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and the other servant,</span>
   <span id="f000294">Pre served Smith,</span>
   <span id="f000295">left without coherent explanation - or at least,</span>
   <span id="f000296">with only some wild tales and a complaint that he disliked the smell of the place.</span>
   <span id="f000297">For a time Mercy could secure no more help,</span>
   <span id="f000298">since the seven deaths and case of madness,</span>
   <span id="f000299">all occurring within five years’ space,</span>
   <span id="f000300">had begun to set in motion the body of fireside rumour which later became so bizarre.</span>
   <span id="f000301">Ultimately,</span>
   <span id="f000302">however,</span>
   <span id="f000303">she obtained new servants from out of town;</span>
   <span id="f000304">Ann White,</span>
   <span id="f000305">a morose woman from that part of North Kingstown now set off as the township of Exeter,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and a capable Boston man named Zenas Low.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">It was Ann White who first gave definite shape to the sinister idle talk.</span>
   <span id="f000308">Mercy should have known better than to hire anyone from the Nooseneck Hill country,</span>
   <span id="f000309">for that remote bit of backwoods was then,</span>
   <span id="f000310">as now,</span>
   <span id="f000311">a seat of the most uncomfortable superstitions.</span>
   <span id="f000312">As lately as 1892 an Exeter community exhumed a dead body and ceremoniously burnt its heart in order to prevent certain alleged visitations injurious to the public health and peace,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and one may imagine the point of view of the same section in 1768.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Ann’s tongue was perniciously active,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and within a few months Mercy discharged her,</span>
   <span id="f000316">filling her place with a faithful and amiable Amazon from Newport,</span>
   <span id="f000317">Maria Robbins.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">Meanwhile poor Rhoby Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000319">in her madness,</span>
   <span id="f000320">gave voice to dreams and imaginings of the most hideous sort.</span>
   <span id="f000321">At times her screams became insupportable,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and for long periods she would utter shrieking horrors which necessitated her son’s temporary residence with his cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000323">Peleg Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000324">in Presbyterian Lane near the new college building.</span>
   <span id="f000325">The boy would seem to improve after these visits,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and had Mercy been as wise as she was well-meaning,</span>
   <span id="f000327">she would have let him live permanently with Peleg.</span>
   <span id="f000328">Just what Mrs.&#160;Harris cried out in her fits of violence,</span>
   <span id="f000329">tradition hesitates to say;</span>
   <span id="f000330">or rather,</span>
   <span id="f000331">presents such extravagant accounts that they nullify themselves through sheer absurdity.</span>
   <span id="f000332">Certainly it sounds absurd to hear that a woman educated only in the rudiments of French often shouted for hours in a coarse and idiomatic form of that language,</span>
   <span id="f000333">or that the same per son,</span>
   <span id="f000334">alone and guarded,</span>
   <span id="f000335">complained wildly of a staring thing which bit and chewed at her.</span>
   <span id="f000336">In 1772 the servant Zenas died,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and when Mrs.&#160;Harris heard of it she laughed with a shocking delight utterly foreign to her.</span>
   <span id="f000338">The next year she herself died,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and was laid to rest in the North Burial Ground beside her husband.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">Upon the outbreak of trouble with Great Britain in 1775,</span>
   <span id="f000341">William Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000342">despite his scant sixteen years and feeble constitution,</span>
   <span id="f000343">man aged to enlist in the Army of Observation under General Greene;</span>
   <span id="f000344">and from that time on enjoyed a steady rise in health and prestige.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">In 1780,</span>
   <span id="f000346">as a Captain in Rhode Island forces in New Jersey under Colonel Angell,</span>
   <span id="f000347">he met and married Phebe Hetfield of Elizabethtown,</span>
   <span id="f000348">whom he brought to Providence upon his honourable discharge in the following year.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">The young soldier’s return was not a thing of unmitigated happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000350">The house,</span>
   <span id="f000351">it is true,</span>
   <span id="f000352">was still in good condition;</span>
   <span id="f000353">and the street had been widened and changed in name from Back Street to Benefit Street.</span>
   <span id="f000354">But Mercy Dexter’s once robust frame had undergone a sag and curious decay,</span>
   <span id="f000355">so that she was now a stooped and pathetic figure with hollow voice and disconcerting pallor - qualities shared to a singular degree by the one remaining servant Maria.</span>
   <span id="f000356">In the autumn of 1782 Phebe Harris gave birth to a still-born daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and on the fifteenth of the next May Mercy Dexter took leave of a useful,</span>
   <span id="f000358">austere,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and virtuous life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">William Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000361">at last thoroughly convinced of the radically un healthful nature of his abode,</span>
   <span id="f000362">now took steps toward quitting it and closing it forever.</span>
   <span id="f000363">Securing temporary quarters for himself and wife at the newly opened Golden Ball Inn,</span>
   <span id="f000364">he arranged for the building of a new and finer house in Westminster Street,</span>
   <span id="f000365">in the growing part of the town across the Great Bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000366">There,</span>
   <span id="f000367">in 1785,</span>
   <span id="f000368">his son Dutee was born;</span>
   <span id="f000369">and there the family dwelt till the encroachments of commerce drove them back across the river and over the hill to Angell Street,</span>
   <span id="f000370">in the newer East Side residence district,</span>
   <span id="f000371">where the late Archer Harris built his sumptuous but hideous French-roofed mansion in 1876.</span>
   <span id="f000372">William and Phebe both succumbed to the yellow fever epidemic in 1797,</span>
   <span id="f000373">but Dutee was brought up by his cousin Rathbone Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000374">Peleg’s son.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">Rathbone was a practical man,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and rented the Benefit Street house despite William’s wish to keep it vacant.</span>
   <span id="f000377">He considered it an obligation to his ward to make the most of all the boy’s property,</span>
   <span id="f000378">nor did he concern himself with the deaths and illnesses which caused so many changes of tenants,</span>
   <span id="f000379">or the steadily growing aversion with which the house was generally regarded.</span>
   <span id="f000380">It is likely that he felt only vexation when,</span>
   <span id="f000381">in 1804,</span>
   <span id="f000382">the town council ordered him to fumigate the place with sulphur,</span>
   <span id="f000383">tar and gum camphor on account of the much-discussed deaths of four persons,</span>
   <span id="f000384">presumably caused by the then diminishing fever epidemic.</span>
   <span id="f000385">They said the place had a febrile smell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">Dutee himself thought little of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000387">for he grew up to be a privateersman,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and served with distinction on the Vigilant under Capt.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Cahoone in the War of 1812.</span>
   <span id="f000390">He returned unharmed,</span>
   <span id="f000391">married in 1814,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and became a father on that memorable night of September 23,</span>
   <span id="f000393">1815,</span>
   <span id="f000394">when a great gale drove the waters of the bay over half the town,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and floated a tall sloop well up Westminster Street so that its masts almost tapped the Harris windows in symbolic affirmation that the new boy,</span>
   <span id="f000396">Welcome,</span>
   <span id="f000397">was a seaman’s son.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">Welcome did not survive his father,</span>
   <span id="f000399">but lived to perish gloriously at Fredericksburg in 1862.</span>
   <span id="f000400">Neither he nor his son Archer knew of the shunned house as other than a nuisance almost impossible to rent - perhaps on account of the mustiness and sickly odour of unkempt old age.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000402">it never was rented after a series of deaths culminating in 1861,</span>
   <span id="f000403">which the excitement of the war tended to throw into obscurity.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Carrington Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000405">last of the male line,</span>
   <span id="f000406">knew it only as a deserted and somewhat picturesque center of legend until I told him my experience.</span>
   <span id="f000407">He had meant to tear it down and build an apartment house on the site,</span>
   <span id="f000408">but after my account,</span>
   <span id="f000409">decided to let it stand,</span>
   <span id="f000410">install plumbing,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and rent it.</span>
   <span id="f000412">Nor has he yet had any difficulty in obtaining tenants.</span>
   <span id="f000413">The horror has gone.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000414">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000415">It may well be imagined how powerfully I was affected by the annals of the Harrises.</span>
   <span id="f000416">In this continuous record there seemed to me to brood a persistent evil beyond anything in nature as I had known it;</span>
   <span id="f000417">an evil clearly connected with the house and not with the family.</span>
   <span id="f000418">This impression was confirmed by my uncle’s less systematic array of miscellaneous data - legends transcribed from servant gossip,</span>
   <span id="f000419">cuttings from the papers,</span>
   <span id="f000420">copies of death certificates by fellow- physicians,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and the like.</span>
   <span id="f000422">All of this material I cannot hope to give,</span>
   <span id="f000423">for my uncle was a tireless antiquarian and very deeply interested in the shunned house;</span>
   <span id="f000424">but I may refer to several dominant points which earn notice by their recurrence through many reports from diverse sources.</span>
   <span id="f000425">For example,</span>
   <span id="f000426">the servant gossip was practically unanimous in attributing to the fungous and malodorous cellar of the house a vast supremacy in evil influence.</span>
   <span id="f000427">There had been servants - Ann White especially - who would not use the cellar kitchen,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and at least three well-defined legends bore upon the queer quasi-human or diabolic outlines assumed by tree-roots and patches of mould in that region.</span>
   <span id="f000429">These latter narratives interested me profoundly,</span>
   <span id="f000430">on account of what I had seen in my boyhood,</span>
   <span id="f000431">but I felt that most of the significance had in each case been largely obscured by additions from the common stock of local ghost lore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">Ann White,</span>
   <span id="f000433">with her Exeter superstition,</span>
   <span id="f000434">had promulgated the most extravagant and at the same time most consistent tale;</span>
   <span id="f000435">alleging that there must lie buried beneath the house one of those vampires - the dead who retain their bodily form and live on the blood or breath of the living - whose hideous legions send their preying shapes or spirits abroad by night.</span>
   <span id="f000436">To destroy a vampire one must,</span>
   <span id="f000437">the grandmothers say,</span>
   <span id="f000438">exhume it and burn its heart,</span>
   <span id="f000439">or at least drive a stake through that organ;</span>
   <span id="f000440">and Ann’s dogged insistence on a search under the cellar had been prominent in bringing about her discharge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">Her tales,</span>
   <span id="f000442">however,</span>
   <span id="f000443">commanded a wide audience,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and were the more readily accepted because the house indeed stood on land once used for burial purposes.</span>
   <span id="f000445">To me their interest depended less on this circumstance than on the peculiarly appropriate way in which they dove-tailed with certain other things - the complaint of the de parting servant Preserved Smith,</span>
   <span id="f000446">who had preceded Ann and never heard of her,</span>
   <span id="f000447">that something “sucked his breath” at night;</span>
   <span id="f000448">the death- certificates of fever victims of 1804,</span>
   <span id="f000449">issued by Dr.&#160;Chad Hopkins,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and showing the four deceased persons all unaccountably lacking in blood;</span>
   <span id="f000451">and the obscure passages of poor Rhoby Harris’s ravings,</span>
   <span id="f000452">where she complained of the sharp teeth of a glassy-eyed,</span>
   <span id="f000453">half-visible presence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">Free from unwarranted superstition though I am,</span>
   <span id="f000455">these things produced in me an odd sensation,</span>
   <span id="f000456">which was intensified by a pair of widely separated newspaper cuttings relating to deaths in the shunned house - one from the Providence Gazette and Country-Journal of April 12,</span>
   <span id="f000457">1815,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and the other from the Daily Transcript and Chronicle of October 27,</span>
   <span id="f000459">1845 - each of which detailed an appallingly grisly circumstance whose duplication was remarkable.</span>
   <span id="f000460">It seems that in both instances the dying person,</span>
   <span id="f000461">in 1815 a gentle old lady named Stafford and in 1845 a school-teacher of middle age named Eleazar Durfee,</span>
   <span id="f000462">became transfigured in a horrible way;</span>
   <span id="f000463">glaring glassily and attempting to bite the throat of the attending physician.</span>
   <span id="f000464">Even more puzzling,</span>
   <span id="f000465">though,</span>
   <span id="f000466">was the final case which put an end to the renting of the house - a series of anaemia deaths preceded by progressive madnesses wherein the patient would craftily attempt the lives of his relatives by incisions in the neck or wrists.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">This was in 1860 and 1861,</span>
   <span id="f000468">when my uncle had just begun his medical practice;</span>
   <span id="f000469">and before leaving for the front he heard much of it from his elder professional colleagues.</span>
   <span id="f000470">The really inexplicable thing was the way in which the victims - ignorant people,</span>
   <span id="f000471">for the ill- smelling and widely shunned house could now be rented to no others - would babble maledictions in French,</span>
   <span id="f000472">a language they could not possibly have studied to any extent.</span>
   <span id="f000473">It made one think of poor Rhoby Harris nearly a century before,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and so moved my uncle that he commenced collecting historical data on the house after listening,</span>
   <span id="f000475">some time subsequent to his return from the war,</span>
   <span id="f000476">to the first-hand account of Drs.</span>
   <span id="f000477">Chase and Whitmarsh.</span>
   <span id="f000478">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000479">I could see that my uncle had thought deeply on the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and that he was glad of my own interest - an open-minded and sympathetic interest which enabled him to discuss with me matters at which others would merely have laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000481">His fancy had not gone so far as mine,</span>
   <span id="f000482">but he felt that the place was rare in its imaginative potentialities,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and worthy of note as an inspiration in the field of the grotesque and macabre.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">For my part,</span>
   <span id="f000485">I was disposed to take the whole subject with pro found seriousness,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and began at once not only to review the evidence,</span>
   <span id="f000487">but to accumulate as much as I could.</span>
   <span id="f000488">I talked with the elderly Archer Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000489">then owner of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000490">many times before his death in 1916;</span>
   <span id="f000491">and obtained from him and his still surviving maiden sister Alice an authentic corroboration of all the family data my uncle had collected.</span>
   <span id="f000492">When,</span>
   <span id="f000493">however,</span>
   <span id="f000494">I asked them what connection with France or its language the house could have,</span>
   <span id="f000495">they confessed themselves as frankly baffled and ignorant as I.</span>
   <span id="f000496">Archer knew nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000497">and all that Miss Harris could say was that an old allusion her grandfather,</span>
   <span id="f000498">Dutee Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000499">had heard of might have shed a little light.</span>
   <span id="f000500">The old seaman,</span>
   <span id="f000501">who had survived his son Welcome’s death in battle by two years,</span>
   <span id="f000502">had not himself known the legend;</span>
   <span id="f000503">but recalled that his earliest nurse,</span>
   <span id="f000504">the ancient Maria Robbins,</span>
   <span id="f000505">seemed darkly aware of something that might have lent a weird significance to the French ravings of Rhoby Harris,</span>
   <span id="f000506">which she had so often heard during the last days of that hapless woman.</span>
   <span id="f000507">Maria had been at the shunned house from 1769 till the removal of the family in 1783,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and had seen Mercy Dexter die.</span>
   <span id="f000509">Once she hinted to the child Dutee of a somewhat peculiar circumstance in Mercy’s last moments,</span>
   <span id="f000510">but he had soon for gotten all about it save that it was something peculiar.</span>
   <span id="f000511">The grand daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000512">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000513">recalled even this much with difficulty.</span>
   <span id="f000514">She and her brother were not so much interested in the house as was Archer’s son Carrington,</span>
   <span id="f000515">the present owner,</span>
   <span id="f000516">with whom I talked after my experience.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">Having exhausted the Harris family of all the information it could furnish,</span>
   <span id="f000518">I turned my attention to early town records and deeds with a zeal more penetrating than that which my uncle had occasionally shown in the same work.</span>
   <span id="f000519">What I wished was a comprehensive history of the site from its very settlement in 1636 - or even before,</span>
   <span id="f000520">if any Narragansett Indian legend could be unearthed to supply the data.</span>
   <span id="f000521">I found,</span>
   <span id="f000522">at the start,</span>
   <span id="f000523">that the land had been part of a long strip of the lot granted originally to John Throckmorton;</span>
   <span id="f000524">one of many similar strips beginning at the Town Street beside the river and extending up over the hill to a line roughly corresponding with the modern Hope Street.</span>
   <span id="f000525">The Throckmorton lot had later,</span>
   <span id="f000526">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000527">been much subdivided;</span>
   <span id="f000528">and I became very assiduous in tracing that section through which Back or Benefit Street was later run.</span>
   <span id="f000529">It had,</span>
   <span id="f000530">a rumour indeed said,</span>
   <span id="f000531">been the Throckmorton graveyard;</span>
   <span id="f000532">but as I examined the records more carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000533">I found that the graves had all been transferred at an early date to the North Burial Ground on the Pawtucket West Road.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">Then suddenly I came - by a rare piece of chance,</span>
   <span id="f000535">since it was not in the main body of records and might easily have been missed - upon something which aroused my keenest eagerness,</span>
   <span id="f000536">fitting in as it did with several of the queerest phases of the affair.</span>
   <span id="f000537">It was the record of a lease in 1697,</span>
   <span id="f000538">of a small tract of ground to an Etienne Roulet and wife.</span>
   <span id="f000539">At last the French element had appeared - that,</span>
   <span id="f000540">and another deeper element of horror which the name conjured up from the darkest recesses of my weird and heterogeneous reading - and I feverishly studied the platting of the locality as it had been before the cutting through and partial straightening of Back Street between 1747 and 1758.</span>
   <span id="f000541">I found what I had half expected,</span>
   <span id="f000542">that where the shunned house now stood,</span>
   <span id="f000543">the Roulets had laid out their graveyard behind a one-story and attic cottage,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and that no record of any transfer of.</span>
   <span id="f000545">graves existed.</span>
   <span id="f000546">The document,</span>
   <span id="f000547">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000548">ended in much confusion;</span>
   <span id="f000549">and I was forced to ransack both the Rhode Island Historical Society and Shepley Library before I could find a local door which the name of Etienne Roulet would unlock.</span>
   <span id="f000550">In the end I did find something;</span>
   <span id="f000551">some thing of such vague but monstrous import that I set about at once to examine the cellar of the shunned house itself with a new and ex cited minuteness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">The Roulets,</span>
   <span id="f000553">it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000554">had come in 1696 from East Greenwich,</span>
   <span id="f000555">down the west shore of Narragansett Bay.</span>
   <span id="f000556">They were Huguenots from Caude,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and had encountered much opposition before the Providence selectmen allowed them to settle in the town.</span>
   <span id="f000558">Unpopularity had dogged them in East Greenwich,</span>
   <span id="f000559">whither they had come in 1686,</span>
   <span id="f000560">after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and rumour said that the cause of dislike extended beyond mere racial and national prejudice,</span>
   <span id="f000562">or the land disputes which involved other French settlers with the English in rivalries which not even Governor Andros could quell.</span>
   <span id="f000563">But their ardent Protestantism - too ardent,</span>
   <span id="f000564">some whispered - and their evident distress when virtually driven from the village had been granted a haven;</span>
   <span id="f000565">and the swarthy Etienne Roulet,</span>
   <span id="f000566">less apt at agriculture than at reading queer books and drawing queer diagrams,</span>
   <span id="f000567">was given a clerical post in the warehouse at Pardon Tillinghast’s wharf,</span>
   <span id="f000568">far south in Town Street.</span>
   <span id="f000569">There had,</span>
   <span id="f000570">however,</span>
   <span id="f000571">been a riot of</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">some sort later on - perhaps forty years later,</span>
   <span id="f000573">after old Roulet’s death - and no one seemed to hear of the family after that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">For a century and more,</span>
   <span id="f000575">it appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000576">the Roulets had been well re membered and frequently discussed as vivid incidents in the quiet life of a New England seaport.</span>
   <span id="f000577">Etienne’s son Paul,</span>
   <span id="f000578">a surly fellow whose erratic conduct had probably provoked the riot which wiped out the family,</span>
   <span id="f000579">was particularly a source of speculation;</span>
   <span id="f000580">and though Providence never shared the witchcraft panics of her Puritan neighbours,</span>
   <span id="f000581">it was freely intimated by old wives that his prayers were neither uttered at the proper time nor directed toward the proper object.</span>
   <span id="f000582">All this had undoubtedly formed the basis of the legend known by old Maria Robbins.</span>
   <span id="f000583">What relation it had to the French ravings of Rhoby Harris and other inhabitants of the shunned house,</span>
   <span id="f000584">imagination or future discovery alone could determine.</span>
   <span id="f000585">I wondered how many of those who had known the legends realized that additional link with the terrible which my wider reading had given me;</span>
   <span id="f000586">that ominous item in the annals of morbid horror which tells of the creature Jacques Roulet,</span>
   <span id="f000587">of Caude,</span>
   <span id="f000588">who in 1598 was condemned to death as a daemoniac but afterward saved from the stake by the Paris parliament and shut in a madhouse.</span>
   <span id="f000589">He had been found covered with blood and shreds of flesh in a wood,</span>
   <span id="f000590">shortly after the killing and rending of a boy by a pair of wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000591">One wolf was seen to lope away unhurt.</span>
   <span id="f000592">Surely a pretty hearthside tale,</span>
   <span id="f000593">with a queer significance as to name and place;</span>
   <span id="f000594">but I decided that the Providence gossips could not have generally known of it.</span>
   <span id="f000595">Had they known,</span>
   <span id="f000596">the coincidence of names would have brought some drastic and frightened action- indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000597">might not its limited whispering have precipitated the final riot which erased the Roulets from the town?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">I now visited the accursed place with increased frequency;</span>
   <span id="f000599">studying the unwholesome vegetation of the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000600">examining all the walls of the building,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and poring over every inch of the earthen cellar floor.</span>
   <span id="f000602">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f000603">with Carrington Harris’s permission,</span>
   <span id="f000604">I fitted a key to the disused door opening from the cellar directly upon Benefit Street,</span>
   <span id="f000605">preferring to have a more immediate access to the outside world than the dark stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000606">ground floor hall,</span>
   <span id="f000607">and front door could give.</span>
   <span id="f000608">There,</span>
   <span id="f000609">where morbidity lurked most thickly,</span>
   <span id="f000610">I searched and poked during long afternoons when the sunlight filtered in through the cobwebbed above-ground door which placed me only a few feet from the placid sidewalk outside.</span>
   <span id="f000611">Nothing new rewarded my efforts-only the same depressing mustiness and faint suggestions of noxious odours and nitrous outlines on the floor - and I fancy that many pedestrians must have watched me curiously through the broken panes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000613">upon a suggestion of my uncle’s,</span>
   <span id="f000614">I decided to try the spot nocturnally;</span>
   <span id="f000615">and one stormy midnight ran the beams of an electric torch over the mouldy floor with its uncanny shapes and distorted,</span>
   <span id="f000616">half-phosphorescent fungi.</span>
   <span id="f000617">The place had dispirited me curiously that evening,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and I was almost prepared when I saw - or thought I saw - amidst the whitish deposits a particularly sharp definition of the “huddled form” I had suspected from boyhood.</span>
   <span id="f000619">Its clear ness was astonishing and unprecedented - and as I watched I seemed to see again the thin,</span>
   <span id="f000620">yellowish,</span>
   <span id="f000621">shimmering exhalation which had startled me on that rainy afternoon so many years before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">Above the anthropomorphic patch of mould by the fireplace it rose;</span>
   <span id="f000623">a subtle,</span>
   <span id="f000624">sickish,</span>
   <span id="f000625">almost luminous vapour which,</span>
   <span id="f000626">as it hung trembling in the dampness,</span>
   <span id="f000627">seemed to develop vague and shocking suggestions of form,</span>
   <span id="f000628">gradually trailing off into nebulous decay and passing up into the blackness of the great chimney with a foetor in its wake.</span>
   <span id="f000629">It was truly horrible,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and the more so to me because of.</span>
   <span id="f000631">what I knew of the spot.</span>
   <span id="f000632">Refusing to flee,</span>
   <span id="f000633">I watched it fade - and as I watched I felt that it was in turn watching me greedily with eyes more imaginable than visible.</span>
   <span id="f000634">When I told my uncle about it he was greatly aroused;</span>
   <span id="f000635">and after a tense hour of reflection,</span>
   <span id="f000636">arrived at a definite and drastic decision.</span>
   <span id="f000637">Weighing in his mind the importance of the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000638">and the significance of our relation to it,</span>
   <span id="f000639">he insisted that we both test - and if possible destroy - the horror of the house by a joint night or nights of aggressive vigil in that musty and fungous-cursed cellar.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000640">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000641">On Wednesday,</span>
   <span id="f000642">June 25,</span>
   <span id="f000643">1919,</span>
   <span id="f000644">after a proper notification of Carring ton Harris which did not include surmises as to what we expected to find,</span>
   <span id="f000645">my uncle and I conveyed to the shunned house two camp chairs and a folding camp cot,</span>
   <span id="f000646">together with some scientific mechanism of greater weight and intricacy.</span>
   <span id="f000647">These we placed in the cellar during the day,</span>
   <span id="f000648">screening the windows with paper and planning to return in the evening for our first vigil.</span>
   <span id="f000649">We had locked the door from the cellar to the ground floor;</span>
   <span id="f000650">and having a key to the outside cellar door,</span>
   <span id="f000651">we were prepared to leave our expensive and delicate apparatus - which we had obtained secretly and at great cost - as many days as our vigil might need to be protracted.</span>
   <span id="f000652">It was our design to sit up together till very late,</span>
   <span id="f000653">and then watch singly till dawn in two- hour stretches,</span>
   <span id="f000654">myself first and then my companion;</span>
   <span id="f000655">the inactive member resting on the cot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">The natural leadership with which my uncle procured the instruments from the laboratories of Brown University and the Cranston Street Armory,</span>
   <span id="f000657">and instinctively assumed direction of our venture,</span>
   <span id="f000658">was a marvellous commentary on the potential vitality and resilience of a man of eighty-one.</span>
   <span id="f000659">Elihu Whipple had lived according to the hygienic laws he had preached as a physician,</span>
   <span id="f000660">and but for what happened later would be here in full vigour today.</span>
   <span id="f000661">Only two persons suspect what did happen - Carrington Harris and myself.</span>
   <span id="f000662">I had to tell Harris because he owned the house and deserved to know what had gone out of it.</span>
   <span id="f000663">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000664">too,</span>
   <span id="f000665">we had spoken to him in advance of our quest;</span>
   <span id="f000666">and I felt after my uncle’s going that he would understand and assist me in some vitally necessary public explanations.</span>
   <span id="f000667">He turned very pale,</span>
   <span id="f000668">but agreed to help me,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and decided that it would now be safe to rent the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000670">To declare that we were not nervous on that rainy night of watching would be an exaggeration both gross and ridiculous.</span>
   <span id="f000671">We were not,</span>
   <span id="f000672">as I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000673">in any sense childishly superstitious,</span>
   <span id="f000674">but scientific study and reflection had taught us that the known universe of three dimensions embraces the merest fraction of the whole cosmos of substance and energy.</span>
   <span id="f000675">In this case an overwhelming preponderance of evidence from numerous authentic sources pointed to the tenacious existence of certain forces of great power and,</span>
   <span id="f000676">so far as the human point of view is concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000677">exceptional malignancy.</span>
   <span id="f000678">To say that we actually believed in vampires or werewolves would be a carelessly inclusive statement.</span>
   <span id="f000679">Rather must it be said that we were not prepared to deny the possibility of certain unfamiliar and unclassified modifications of vital force and attenuated matter;</span>
   <span id="f000680">existing very infrequently in three-dimensional space because of its more intimate connection with other spatial units,</span>
   <span id="f000681">yet close enough to the boundary of our own to furnish us occasional manifestations which we,</span>
   <span id="f000682">for lack of a proper vantage-point,</span>
   <span id="f000683">may never hope to understand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000684">In short,</span>
   <span id="f000685">it seemed to my uncle and me that an incontrovertible array of facts pointed to some lingering influence in the shunned house;</span>
   <span id="f000686">traceable to one or another of the ill-favoured French settlers of two centuries before,</span>
   <span id="f000687">and still operative through rare and un known laws of atomic and electronic motion.</span>
   <span id="f000688">That the family of Roulet had possessed an abnormal affinity for outer circles of entity - dark spheres which for normal folk hold only repulsion and terror - their recorded history seemed to prove.</span>
   <span id="f000689">Had not,</span>
   <span id="f000690">then,</span>
   <span id="f000691">the riots of those bygone seventeen-thirties set moving certain kinetic patterns in the morbid brain of one or more of them - notably the sinister Paul Roulet - which obscurely survived the bodies murdered,</span>
   <span id="f000692">and continued to function in some multiple-dimensioned space along the original lines of force determined by a frantic hatred of the encroaching community?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000693">Such a thing was surely not a physical or biochemical impossibility in the light of a newer science which includes the theories of relativity and intra-atomic action.</span>
   <span id="f000694">One might easily imagine an alien nucleus of substance or energy,</span>
   <span id="f000695">formless or otherwise,</span>
   <span id="f000696">kept alive by imperceptible or immaterial subtractions from the life-force or bodily tissue and fluids of other and more palpably living things into which it penetrates and with whose fabric it sometimes completely merges itself.</span>
   <span id="f000697">It might be actively hostile,</span>
   <span id="f000698">or it might be dictated merely by blind motives of self-preservation.</span>
   <span id="f000699">In any case such a monster must of necessity be in our scheme of things an anomaly and an intruder,</span>
   <span id="f000700">whose extirpation forms a primary duty with every man not an enemy to the world’s life,</span>
   <span id="f000701">health,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and sanity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">What baffled us was our utter ignorance of the aspect in which we might encounter the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000704">No sane person had even seen it,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and few had ever felt it definitely.</span>
   <span id="f000706">It might be pure energy - a form ethereal and outside the realm of substance-or it might be partly material;</span>
   <span id="f000707">some unknown and equivocal mass of plasticity,</span>
   <span id="f000708">capable of changing at will to nebulous approximations of the solid,</span>
   <span id="f000709">liquid,</span>
   <span id="f000710">gaseous,</span>
   <span id="f000711">or tenuously unparticled states.</span>
   <span id="f000712">The anthropomorphic patch of mould on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000713">the form of the yellowish vapour,</span>
   <span id="f000714">and the curvature of the tree-roots in some of the old tales,</span>
   <span id="f000715">all argued at least a remote and reminiscent connection with the human shape;</span>
   <span id="f000716">but how representative or permanent that similarity might be,</span>
   <span id="f000717">none could say with any kind of certainty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000718">We had devised two weapons to fight it;</span>
   <span id="f000719">a large and specially fitted Crookes tube operated by powerful storage batteries and pro vided with peculiar screens and reflectors,</span>
   <span id="f000720">in case it proved intangible and opposable only by vigorously destructive ether radiations,</span>
   <span id="f000721">and a pair of military flame-throwers of the sort used in the World War,</span>
   <span id="f000722">in case it proved partly material and susceptible of mechanical destruction - for like the superstitious Exeter rustics,</span>
   <span id="f000723">we were prepared to burn the thing’s heart out if heart existed to burn.</span>
   <span id="f000724">All this aggressive mechanism we set in the cellar in positions care fully arranged with reference to the cot and chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000725">and to the spot before the fireplace where the mould had taken strange shapes.</span>
   <span id="f000726">That suggestive patch,</span>
   <span id="f000727">by the way,</span>
   <span id="f000728">was only faintly visible when we placed our furniture and instruments,</span>
   <span id="f000729">and when we returned that evening for the actual vigil.</span>
   <span id="f000730">For a moment I half-doubted that I had ever seen it in the more definitely limned form - but then I thought of the legends.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">Our cellar vigil began at 10 P.M.,</span>
   <span id="f000732">daylight saving time,</span>
   <span id="f000733">and as it continued we found no promise of pertinent developments.</span>
   <span id="f000734">A weak,</span>
   <span id="f000735">filtered glow from the rain-harassed street lamps outside,</span>
   <span id="f000736">and a feeble phosphorescence from the detestable fungi within,</span>
   <span id="f000737">showed the drip ping stone of the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000738">from which all traces of whitewash had vanished;</span>
   <span id="f000739">the dank,</span>
   <span id="f000740">foetid and mildew-tainted hard earth floor with its obscene fungi;</span>
   <span id="f000741">the rotting remains of what had been stools,</span>
   <span id="f000742">chairs and tables,</span>
   <span id="f000743">and other more shapeless furniture;</span>
   <span id="f000744">the heavy planks and massive beams of the ground floor overhead;</span>
   <span id="f000745">the decrepit plank door leading to bins and chambers beneath other parts of the house;</span>
   <span id="f000746">the crumbling stone staircase with ruined wooden hand-rail;</span>
   <span id="f000747">and the crude and cavernous fireplace of blackened brick where rusted iron fragments revealed the past presence of hooks,</span>
   <span id="f000748">andirons,</span>
   <span id="f000749">spit,</span>
   <span id="f000750">crane,</span>
   <span id="f000751">and a door to the Dutch oven - these things,</span>
   <span id="f000752">and our austere cot and camp chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000753">and the heavy and intricate destructive machinery we had brought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">We had,</span>
   <span id="f000755">as in my own former explorations,</span>
   <span id="f000756">left the door to the street unlocked;</span>
   <span id="f000757">so that a direct and practical path of escape might lie open in case of manifestations beyond our power to deal with.</span>
   <span id="f000758">It was our idea that our continued nocturnal presence would call forth whatever malign entity lurked there;</span>
   <span id="f000759">and that being prepared,</span>
   <span id="f000760">we could dispose of the thing with one or the other of our provided means as soon as we had recognised and observed it sufficiently.</span>
   <span id="f000761">How long it might require to evoke and extinguish the thing,</span>
   <span id="f000762">we had no notion.</span>
   <span id="f000763">It occurred to us,</span>
   <span id="f000764">too,</span>
   <span id="f000765">that our venture was far from safe,</span>
   <span id="f000766">for in what strength the thing might appear no one could tell.</span>
   <span id="f000767">But we deemed the game worth the hazard,</span>
   <span id="f000768">and embarked on it alone and unhesitatingly;</span>
   <span id="f000769">conscious that the seeking of outside aid would only expose us to ridicule and perhaps defeat our entire purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000770">Such was our frame of mind as we talked - far into the night,</span>
   <span id="f000771">till my uncle’s growing drowsiness made me remind him to lie down for his two-hour sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000772">Something like fear chilled me as I sat there in the small hours alone - I say alone,</span>
   <span id="f000773">for one who sits by a sleeper is indeed alone;</span>
   <span id="f000774">perhaps more alone than he can realise.</span>
   <span id="f000775">My uncle breathed heavily,</span>
   <span id="f000776">his deep inhalations and exhalations accompanied by the rain outside,</span>
   <span id="f000777">and punctuated by another nerve-racking sound of distant dripping water within - for the house was repulsively damp even in dry weather,</span>
   <span id="f000778">and in this storm positively swamp-like.</span>
   <span id="f000779">I studied the loose,</span>
   <span id="f000780">antique-masonry of the walls in the fungous-light and the feeble rays which stole in from the street through the screened windows;</span>
   <span id="f000781">and once,</span>
   <span id="f000782">when the noisome atmosphere of the place seemed about to sicken me,</span>
   <span id="f000783">I opened the door and looked up and down the street,</span>
   <span id="f000784">feasting my eyes on familiar sights and my nostrils on whole some air.</span>
   <span id="f000785">Still nothing occurred to reward my watching;</span>
   <span id="f000786">and I yawned repeatedly,</span>
   <span id="f000787">fatigue getting the better of apprehension.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000788">Then the stirring of my uncle in his sleep attracted my notice.</span>
   <span id="f000789">He had turned restlessly on the cot several times during the latter half of the first hour,</span>
   <span id="f000790">but now he was breathing with unusual irregularity,</span>
   <span id="f000791">occasionally heaving a sigh which held more than a few of the qualities of a choking moan.</span>
   <span id="f000792">I turned my electric flashlight on him and found his face averted,</span>
   <span id="f000793">so rising and crossing to the other side of the cot,</span>
   <span id="f000794">I again flashed the light to see if he seemed in any pain.</span>
   <span id="f000795">What I saw unnerved me most surprisingly,</span>
   <span id="f000796">considering its relative triviality.</span>
   <span id="f000797">It must have been merely the association of an odd circumstance with the sinister nature of our location and mission,</span>
   <span id="f000798">for surely the circumstance was not in itself frightful or unnatural.</span>
   <span id="f000799">It was merely that my uncle’s facial expression,</span>
   <span id="f000800">disturbed no doubt by the strange dreams which our situation prompted,</span>
   <span id="f000801">betrayed consider able agitation,</span>
   <span id="f000802">and seemed not at all characteristic of him.</span>
   <span id="f000803">His habitual expression was one of kindly and well-bred calm,</span>
   <span id="f000804">whereas now a variety of emotions seemed struggling within him.</span>
   <span id="f000805">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000806">on the whole,</span>
   <span id="f000807">that it was this variety which chiefly disturbed me.</span>
   <span id="f000808">My uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000809">as he gasped and tossed in increasing perturbation and with eyes that had now started open,</span>
   <span id="f000810">seemed not one man but many men,</span>
   <span id="f000811">and suggested a curious quality of alienage from himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000812">All at once he commenced to mutter,</span>
   <span id="f000813">and I did not like the look of his mouth and teeth as he spoke.</span>
   <span id="f000814">The words were at first indistinguishable,</span>
   <span id="f000815">and then - with a tremendous start - I recognised some thing about them which filled me with icy fear till I recalled the breadth of my uncle’s education and the interminable translations he had made from anthropological and antiquarian articles in the Revue des Deux Mondes.</span>
   <span id="f000816">For the venerable Elihu Whipple was muttering in French,</span>
   <span id="f000817">and the few phrases I could distinguish seemed connected with the darkest myths he had ever adapted from the famous Paris magazine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000818">Suddenly a perspiration broke out on the sleeper’s forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000819">and he leaped abruptly up,</span>
   <span id="f000820">half awake.</span>
   <span id="f000821">The jumble of French changed to a cry in English,</span>
   <span id="f000822">and the hoarse voice shouted excitedly,</span>
   <span id="f000823">“My breath,</span>
   <span id="f000824">my breath!” Then the awakening became complete,</span>
   <span id="f000825">and with a subsidence of facial expression to the normal state my uncle seized my hand and began to relate a dream whose nucleus of significance I could only surmise with a kind of awe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000826">He had,</span>
   <span id="f000827">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000828">floated off from a very ordinary series of dream- pictures into a scene whose strangeness was related to nothing he had ever read.</span>
   <span id="f000829">It was of this world,</span>
   <span id="f000830">and yet not of it - a shadowy geometrical confusion in which could be seen elements of familiar things in most unfamiliar and perturbing combinations.</span>
   <span id="f000831">There was a suggestion of queerly disordered pictures superimposed one upon an other;</span>
   <span id="f000832">an arrangement in which the essentials of time as well as of space seemed dissolved and mixed in the most illogical fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000833">In this kaleidoscopic vortex of phantasmal images were occasional snap-shots,</span>
   <span id="f000834">if one might use the term,</span>
   <span id="f000835">of singular clearness but un accountable heterogeneity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">Once my uncle thought he lay in a carelessly dug open pit,</span>
   <span id="f000837">with a crowd of angry faces framed by straggling locks and three-cornered hats frowning down at him.</span>
   <span id="f000838">Again he seemed to be in the interior of a house - an old house,</span>
   <span id="f000839">apparently - but the details and inhabitants were constantly changing,</span>
   <span id="f000840">and he could never be certain of the faces or the furniture,</span>
   <span id="f000841">or even of the room itself,</span>
   <span id="f000842">since doors and windows seemed in just as great a state of flux as the more presumably mobile objects.</span>
   <span id="f000843">It was queer - damnably queer - and my uncle spoke almost sheepishly,</span>
   <span id="f000844">as if half expecting not to be believed,</span>
   <span id="f000845">when he declared that of the strange faces many had unmistakably borne the features of the Harris family.</span>
   <span id="f000846">And all the while there was a personal sensation of choking,</span>
   <span id="f000847">as if some pervasive presence had spread itself through his body and sought to possess itself of his vital processes.</span>
   <span id="f000848">I shuddered at the thought of those vital processes,</span>
   <span id="f000849">worn as they were by eighty-one years of continuous functioning,</span>
   <span id="f000850">in conflict with unknown forces of which the youngest and strongest system might well be afraid;</span>
   <span id="f000851">but in another moment reflected that dreams are only dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000852">and that these uncomfortable visions could be,</span>
   <span id="f000853">at most,</span>
   <span id="f000854">no more than my uncle’s reaction to the investigations and expectations which had lately filled our minds to the exclusion of all else.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">Conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000856">also,</span>
   <span id="f000857">soon tended to dispel my sense of strangeness;</span>
   <span id="f000858">and in time I yielded to my yawns and took my turn at slumber.</span>
   <span id="f000859">My uncle seemed now very wakeful,</span>
   <span id="f000860">and welcomed his period of watching even though the nightmare had aroused him far ahead of his al lotted two hours.</span>
   <span id="f000861">Sleep seized me quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000862">and I was at once haunted with dreams of the most disturbing kind.</span>
   <span id="f000863">I felt,</span>
   <span id="f000864">in my visions,</span>
   <span id="f000865">a cosmic and abysmal loneness;</span>
   <span id="f000866">with hostility surging from all sides upon some prison where I lay confined.</span>
   <span id="f000867">I seemed bound and gagged,</span>
   <span id="f000868">and taunted by the echoing yells of distant multitudes who thirsted for my blood.</span>
   <span id="f000869">My uncle’s face came to me with less pleasant associations than in waking hours,</span>
   <span id="f000870">and I recall many futile struggles and at tempts to scream.</span>
   <span id="f000871">It was not a pleasant sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000872">and for a second I was not sorry for the echoing shriek which clove through the barriers of dream and flung me to a sharp and startled awakeness in which every actual object before my eyes stood out with more than natural clearness and reality.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000873">V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000874">I had been lying with my face away from my uncle’s chair,</span>
   <span id="f000875">so that in this sudden flash of awakening I saw only the door to the street,</span>
   <span id="f000876">the more northerly window,</span>
   <span id="f000877">and the wall and floor and ceiling toward the north of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000878">all photographed with morbid vivid ness on my brain in a light brighter than the glow of the fungi or the rays from the street outside.</span>
   <span id="f000879">It was not a strong or even a fairly strong light;</span>
   <span id="f000880">certainly not nearly strong enough to read an average book by.</span>
   <span id="f000881">But it cast a shadow of myself and the cot on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000882">and had a yellowish,</span>
   <span id="f000883">penetrating force that hinted at things more portent than luminosity.</span>
   <span id="f000884">This I perceived with unhealthy sharpness despite the fact that two of my other senses were violently assailed.</span>
   <span id="f000885">For on my ears rang the reverberations of that shocking scream,</span>
   <span id="f000886">while my nostrils revolted at the stench which filled the place.</span>
   <span id="f000887">My mind,</span>
   <span id="f000888">as alert as my senses,</span>
   <span id="f000889">recognised the gravely unusual;</span>
   <span id="f000890">and almost automatically I leaped up and turned about to grasp the destructive instruments which we had left trained on the mouldy spot before the fireplace.</span>
   <span id="f000891">As I turned,</span>
   <span id="f000892">I dreaded what I was to see;</span>
   <span id="f000893">for the scream had been in my uncle’s voice,</span>
   <span id="f000894">and I knew not against what menace I should have to defend him and myself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000895">Yet after all,</span>
   <span id="f000896">the sight was worse than I had dreaded.</span>
   <span id="f000897">There are horrors beyond horrors,</span>
   <span id="f000898">and this was one of those nuclei of all dreamable hideousness which the cosmos saves to blast an accursed and unhappy few.</span>
   <span id="f000899">Out of the fungous-ridden earth steamed up a va porous corpse-light,</span>
   <span id="f000900">yellow and diseased,</span>
   <span id="f000901">which bubbled and lapped to a gigantic height in vague outlines half human and half monstrous,</span>
   <span id="f000902">through which I could see the chimney and fireplace beyond.</span>
   <span id="f000903">It was all eyes - wolfish and mocking - and the rugose insect-like head dissolved at the top to a thin stream of mist which curled putridly about and finally vanished up the chimney.</span>
   <span id="f000904">I say that I saw this thing,</span>
   <span id="f000905">but it is only in conscious retrospection that I ever definitely traced its damnable approach to form.</span>
   <span id="f000906">At the time it was to me only a seething dimly phosphorescent cloud of fungous loathsomeness,</span>
   <span id="f000907">enveloping and dissolving to an abhorrent plasticity the one object to which all my attention was focused.</span>
   <span id="f000908">That object was my uncle - the venerable Elihu Whipple - who with blackening and</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000909">decaying features leered and gibbered at me,</span>
   <span id="f000910">and reached out drip ping claws to rend me in the fury which this horror had brought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">It was a sense of routine which kept me from going mad.</span>
   <span id="f000912">I had drilled myself in preparation for the crucial moment,</span>
   <span id="f000913">and blind training saved me.</span>
   <span id="f000914">Recognising the bubbling evil as no substance reach able by matter or material chemistry,</span>
   <span id="f000915">and therefore ignoring the flame-thrower which loomed on my left,</span>
   <span id="f000916">I threw on the current of the Crookes tube apparatus,</span>
   <span id="f000917">and focussed toward that scene of immortal blasphemousness the strongest ether radiations which men’s art can arouse from the spaces and fluids of nature.</span>
   <span id="f000918">There was a bluish haze and a frenzied sputtering,</span>
   <span id="f000919">and the yellowish phosphorescence grew dimmer to my eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000920">But I saw the dimness was only that of contrast,</span>
   <span id="f000921">and that the waves from the machine had no effect whatever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000922">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000923">in the midst of that daemoniac spectacle,</span>
   <span id="f000924">I saw a fresh horror which brought cries to my lips and sent me fumbling and staggering towards that unlocked door to the quiet street,</span>
   <span id="f000925">careless of what abnormal terrors I loosed upon the world,</span>
   <span id="f000926">or what thoughts or judgments of men I brought down upon my head.</span>
   <span id="f000927">In that dim blend of blue and yellow the form of my uncle had commenced a nauseous liquefaction whose essence eludes all description,</span>
   <span id="f000928">and in which there played across his vanishing face such changes of identity as only madness can conceive.</span>
   <span id="f000929">He was at once a devil and a multitude,</span>
   <span id="f000930">a charnel-house and a pageant.</span>
   <span id="f000931">Lit by the mixed and uncertain beams,</span>
   <span id="f000932">that gelatinous face assumed a dozen - a score - a hundred- aspects;</span>
   <span id="f000933">grinning,</span>
   <span id="f000934">as it sank to the ground on a body that melted like tallow,</span>
   <span id="f000935">in the caricatured likeness of legions strange and yet not strange.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000936">I saw the features of the Harris line,</span>
   <span id="f000937">masculine and feminine,</span>
   <span id="f000938">adult and infantile,</span>
   <span id="f000939">and other features old and young,</span>
   <span id="f000940">coarse and re fined,</span>
   <span id="f000941">familiar and unfamiliar.</span>
   <span id="f000942">For a second there flashed a degraded counterfeit of a miniature of poor Rhoby Harris that I had seen in the School of Design Museum,</span>
   <span id="f000943">and another time I thought I caught the rawboned image of Mercy Dexter as I recalled her from a painting in Carrington Harris’s house.</span>
   <span id="f000944">It was frightful beyond conception;</span>
   <span id="f000945">toward the last,</span>
   <span id="f000946">when a curious blend of servant and baby visages flickered close to the fungous floor where a pool of greenish grease was spreading,</span>
   <span id="f000947">it seemed as though the shifting features fought against themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000948">and strove to form contours like those of my uncle’s kindly face.</span>
   <span id="f000949">I like to think that he existed at that moment,</span>
   <span id="f000950">and that he tried to bid me farewell.</span>
   <span id="f000951">It seems to me I hiccoughed a farewell from my own parched throat as I lurched out into the street;</span>
   <span id="f000952">a thin stream of grease following me through the door to the rain- drenched sidewalk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">The rest is shadowy and monstrous.</span>
   <span id="f000954">There was no one in the soaking street,</span>
   <span id="f000955">and in all the world there was no one I dared tell.</span>
   <span id="f000956">I walked aimlessly south past College Hill and the Athenaeum,</span>
   <span id="f000957">down Hopkins Street,</span>
   <span id="f000958">and over the bridge to the business section where tall buildings seemed to guard me as modern material things guard the world from ancient and unwholesome wonder.</span>
   <span id="f000959">Then the grey dawn unfolded wetly from the east,</span>
   <span id="f000960">silhouetting the archaic hill and its venerable steeples,</span>
   <span id="f000961">and beckoning me to the place where my terrible work was still unfinished.</span>
   <span id="f000962">And in the end I went,</span>
   <span id="f000963">wet,</span>
   <span id="f000964">hatless,</span>
   <span id="f000965">and dazed in the morning light,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and entered that awful door in Benefit Street which I had left ajar,</span>
   <span id="f000967">and which still swung cryptically in full sight of the early householders to whom I dared not speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000968">The grease was gone,</span>
   <span id="f000969">for the mouldy floor was porous.</span>
   <span id="f000970">And in front of the fireplace was no vestige of the giant doubled-up form in nitre.</span>
   <span id="f000971">I looked at the cot,</span>
   <span id="f000972">the chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000973">the instruments,</span>
   <span id="f000974">my neglected hat,</span>
   <span id="f000975">and the yellowed straw hat of my uncle.</span>
   <span id="f000976">Dazedness was upper most,</span>
   <span id="f000977">and I could scarcely recall what was dream and what was reality.</span>
   <span id="f000978">Then thought trickled back,</span>
   <span id="f000979">and I knew that I had witnessed things more horrible than I had dreamed.</span>
   <span id="f000980">Sitting down,</span>
   <span id="f000981">I tried to conjecture as nearly as sanity would let me just what had happened,</span>
   <span id="f000982">and how I might end the horror,</span>
   <span id="f000983">if indeed it had been real.</span>
   <span id="f000984">Matter it seemed not to be,</span>
   <span id="f000985">nor ether,</span>
   <span id="f000986">nor anything else conceivable by mortal mind.</span>
   <span id="f000987">What,</span>
   <span id="f000988">then,</span>
   <span id="f000989">but some exotic emanation;</span>
   <span id="f000990">some vampirish vapour such as Exeter rustics tell of as lurking over certain church yards?</span>
   <span id="f000991">This I felt was the clue,</span>
   <span id="f000992">and again I looked at the floor before the fireplace where the mould and nitre had taken strange forms.</span>
   <span id="f000993">In ten minutes my mind was made up,</span>
   <span id="f000994">and taking my hat I set out for home,</span>
   <span id="f000995">where I bathed,</span>
   <span id="f000996">ate,</span>
   <span id="f000997">and gave by telephone an order for a pick- axe,</span>
   <span id="f000998">a spade,</span>
   <span id="f000999">a military gas-mask,</span>
   <span id="f001000">and six carboys of sulphuric acid,</span>
   <span id="f001001">all to be delivered the next morning at the cellar door of the shunned house in Benefit Street.</span>
   <span id="f001002">After that I tried to sleep;</span>
   <span id="f001003">and failing,</span>
   <span id="f001004">passed the hours in reading and in the composition of inane verses to counteract my mood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001005">At 11 A.M.</span>
   <span id="f001006">the next day I commenced digging.</span>
   <span id="f001007">It was sunny weather,</span>
   <span id="f001008">and I was glad of that.</span>
   <span id="f001009">I was still alone,</span>
   <span id="f001010">for as much as I feared the unknown horror I sought,</span>
   <span id="f001011">there was more fear in the thought of telling anybody.</span>
   <span id="f001012">Later I told Harris only through sheer necessity,</span>
   <span id="f001013">and because he had heard odd tales from old people which disposed him ever so little toward belief.</span>
   <span id="f001014">As I turned up the stinking black earth in front of the fireplace,</span>
   <span id="f001015">my spade causing a viscous yellow ichor to ooze from the white fungi which it severed,</span>
   <span id="f001016">I trembled at the dubious thoughts of what I might uncover.</span>
   <span id="f001017">Some secrets of inner earth are not good for mankind,</span>
   <span id="f001018">and this seemed to me one of them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001019">My hand shook perceptibly,</span>
   <span id="f001020">but still I delved;</span>
   <span id="f001021">after a while standing in the large hole I had made.</span>
   <span id="f001022">With the deepening of the hole,</span>
   <span id="f001023">which was about six feet square,</span>
   <span id="f001024">the evil smell increased;</span>
   <span id="f001025">and I lost all doubt of my imminent contact with the hellish thing whose emanations had cursed the house for over a century and a half.</span>
   <span id="f001026">I wondered what it would look like - what its form and substance would be,</span>
   <span id="f001027">and how big it might have waxed through long ages of life- sucking.</span>
   <span id="f001028">At length I climbed out of the hole and dispersed the heaped-up dirt,</span>
   <span id="f001029">then arranging the great carboys of acid around and near two sides,</span>
   <span id="f001030">so that when necessary I might empty them all down the aperture in quick succession.</span>
   <span id="f001031">After that I dumped earth only along the other two sides;</span>
   <span id="f001032">working more slowly and donning my gas- mask as the smell grew.</span>
   <span id="f001033">I was nearly unnerved at my proximity to a nameless thing at the bottom of a pit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001034">Suddenly my spade struck something softer than earth.</span>
   <span id="f001035">I shuddered and made a motion as if to climb out of the hole,</span>
   <span id="f001036">which was now as deep as my neck.</span>
   <span id="f001037">Then courage returned,</span>
   <span id="f001038">and I scraped away more dirt in the light of the electric torch I had provided.</span>
   <span id="f001039">The surface I uncovered was fishy and glassy - a kind of semi-putrid congealed jelly with suggestions of translucency.</span>
   <span id="f001040">I scraped further,</span>
   <span id="f001041">and saw that it had form.</span>
   <span id="f001042">There was a rift where a part of the substance was folded over.</span>
   <span id="f001043">The exposed area was huge and roughly cylindrical;</span>
   <span id="f001044">like a mammoth soft blue-white stovepipe doubled in two,</span>
   <span id="f001045">its largest part some two feet in diameter.</span>
   <span id="f001046">Still more I scraped,</span>
   <span id="f001047">and then abruptly I leaped out of the hole and away from the filthy thing;</span>
   <span id="f001048">frantically unstopping and tilting the heavy carboys,</span>
   <span id="f001049">and precipitating their corrosive contents one after another down that charnel gulf and upon this unthinkable abnormality whose titan elbow I had seen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001050">The blinding maelstrom of greenish-yellow vapour which surged tempestuously up from that hole as the floods of acid descended,</span>
   <span id="f001051">will never leave my memory.</span>
   <span id="f001052">All along the hill people tell of the yellow day,</span>
   <span id="f001053">when virulent and horrible fumes arose from the factory waste dumped in the Providence River,</span>
   <span id="f001054">but I know how mistaken they are as to the source.</span>
   <span id="f001055">They tell,</span>
   <span id="f001056">too,</span>
   <span id="f001057">of the hideous roar which at the same time came from some disordered water-pipe or gas main underground - but again I could correct them if I dared.</span>
   <span id="f001058">It was unspeakably shocking,</span>
   <span id="f001059">and I do not see how I lived through it.</span>
   <span id="f001060">I did faint after emptying the fourth carboy,</span>
   <span id="f001061">which I had to handle after the fumes had begun to penetrate my mask;</span>
   <span id="f001062">but when I recovered I saw that the hole was emitting no fresh vapours.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001063">The two remaining carboys I emptied down without particular result,</span>
   <span id="f001064">and after a time I felt it safe to shovel the earth back into the pit.</span>
   <span id="f001065">It was twilight before I was done,</span>
   <span id="f001066">but fear had gone out of the place.</span>
   <span id="f001067">The dampness was less foetid,</span>
   <span id="f001068">and all the strange fungi had withered to a kind of harmless greyish powder which blew ashlike along the floor.</span>
   <span id="f001069">One of earth’s nethermost terrors had perished forever;</span>
   <span id="f001070">and if there be a hell,</span>
   <span id="f001071">it had received at last the daemon soul of an unhallowed thing.</span>
   <span id="f001072">And as I patted down the last spadeful of mould,</span>
   <span id="f001073">I shed the first of many tears with which I have paid unaffected tribute to my beloved uncle’s memory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001074">The next spring no more pale grass and strange weeds came up in the shunned house’s terraced garden,</span>
   <span id="f001075">and shortly afterward Carring ton Harris rented the place.</span>
   <span id="f001076">It it still spectral,</span>
   <span id="f001077">but its strangeness fascinates me,</span>
   <span id="f001078">and I shall find mixed with my relief a queer regret when it is torn down to make way for a tawdry shop or vulgar apartment building.</span>
   <span id="f001079">The barren old trees in the yard have begun to bear small,</span>
   <span id="f001080">sweet apples,</span>
   <span id="f001081">and last year the birds nested in their gnarled boughs.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

