<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Dagon</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">I am writing this under an appreciable mental strain,</span>
   <span id="f000003">since by tonight I shall be no more.</span>
   <span id="f000004">Penniless,</span>
   <span id="f000005">and at the end of my supply of the drug which alone,</span>
   <span id="f000006">makes life endurable,</span>
   <span id="f000007">I can bear the torture no longer;</span>
   <span id="f000008">and shall cast myself from this garret window into the squalid street below.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Do not think from my slavery to morphine that I am a weakling or a degenerate.</span>
   <span id="f000010">When you have read these hastily scrawled pages you may guess,</span>
   <span id="f000011">though never fully realise,</span>
   <span id="f000012">why it is that I must have forgetfulness or death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">It was in one of the most open and least frequented parts of the broad Pacific that the packet of which I was supercargo fell a victim to the German sea-raider.</span>
   <span id="f000014">The great war was then at its very beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and the ocean forces of the Hun had not completely sunk to their later degradation;</span>
   <span id="f000016">so that our vessel was made a legitimate prize,</span>
   <span id="f000017">whilst we of her crew were treated with all the fairness and consideration due us as naval prisoners.</span>
   <span id="f000018">So liberal,</span>
   <span id="f000019">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000020">was the discipline of our captors,</span>
   <span id="f000021">that five days after we were taken I managed to escape alone in a small boat with water and provisions for a good length of time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">When I finally found myself adrift and free,</span>
   <span id="f000023">I had but little idea of my surroundings.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Never a competent navigator,</span>
   <span id="f000025">I could only guess vaguely by the sun and stars that I was somewhat south of the equator.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Of the longitude I knew nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and no island or coastline was in sight.</span>
   <span id="f000028">The weather kept fair,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and for uncounted days I drifted aimlessly beneath the scorching sun;</span>
   <span id="f000030">waiting either for some passing ship,</span>
   <span id="f000031">or to be cast on the shores of some habitable land.</span>
   <span id="f000032">But neither ship nor land appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and I began to despair in my solitude upon the heaving vastness of unbroken blue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">The change happened whilst I slept.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Its details I shall never know;</span>
   <span id="f000036">for my slumber,</span>
   <span id="f000037">though troubled and dream-infested,</span>
   <span id="f000038">was continuous.</span>
   <span id="f000039">When at last I awakened,</span>
   <span id="f000040">it was to discover myself half sucked into a slimy expanse of hellish black mire which extended about me in monotonous undulations as far as I could see,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and in which my boat lay grounded some distance away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">Though one might well imagine that my first sensation would be of wonder at so prodigious and unexpected a transformation of scenery,</span>
   <span id="f000043">I was in reality more horrified than astonished;</span>
   <span id="f000044">for there was in the air and in the rotting soil a sinister quality which chilled me to the very core.</span>
   <span id="f000045">The region was putrid with the carcasses of decaying fish,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and of other less describable things which I saw protruding from the nasty mud of the unending plain.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Perhaps I should not hope to convey in mere words the unutterable hideousness that can dwell in absolute silence and barren immensity.</span>
   <span id="f000048">There was nothing within hearing,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and nothing in sight save a vast reach of black slime;</span>
   <span id="f000050">yet the very completeness of the stillness and the homogeneity of the landscape oppressed me with a nauseating fear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">The sun was blazing down from a sky which seemed to me almost black in its cloudless cruelty;</span>
   <span id="f000052">as though reflecting the inky marsh beneath my feet.</span>
   <span id="f000053">As I crawled into the stranded boat I realized that only one theory could explain my position.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Through some unprecedented volcanic upheaval,</span>
   <span id="f000055">a portion of the ocean floor must have been thrown to the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000056">exposing regions which for innumerable millions of years had lain hidden under unfathomable watery depths.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">So great was the extent of the new land which had risen beneath me,</span>
   <span id="f000058">that I could not detect the faintest noise of the surging ocean,</span>
   <span id="f000059">strain my ears as I might.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">Nor were there any sea-fowl to prey upon the dead things.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">For several hours I sat thinking or brooding in the boat,</span>
   <span id="f000062">which lay upon its side and afforded a slight shade as the sun moved across the heavens.</span>
   <span id="f000063">As the day progressed,</span>
   <span id="f000064">the ground lost some of its stickiness,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and seemed likely to dry sufficiently for travelling purposes in a short time.</span>
   <span id="f000066">That night I slept but little,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and the next day I made for myself a pack containing food and water,</span>
   <span id="f000068">preparatory to an overland journey in search of the vanished sea and possible rescue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">On the third morning I found the soil dry enough to walk upon with ease.</span>
   <span id="f000070">The odour of the fish was maddening;</span>
   <span id="f000071">but I was too much concerned with graver things to mind so slight an evil,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and set out boldly for an unknown goal.</span>
   <span id="f000073">All day I forged steadily westward,</span>
   <span id="f000074">guided by a far-away hummock which rose higher than any other elevation on the rolling desert.</span>
   <span id="f000075">That night I encamped,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and on the following day still travelled toward the hummock,</span>
   <span id="f000077">though that object seemed scarcely nearer than when I had first espied it.</span>
   <span id="f000078">By the fourth evening I attained the base of the mound,</span>
   <span id="f000079">which turned out to be much higher than it had appeared from a distance,</span>
   <span id="f000080">an intervening valley setting it out in sharper relief from the general surface.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Too weary to ascend,</span>
   <span id="f000082">I slept in the shadow of the hill.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">I know not why my dreams were so wild that night;</span>
   <span id="f000084">but ere the waning and fantastically gibbous moon had risen far above the eastern plain,</span>
   <span id="f000085">I was awake in a cold perspiration,</span>
   <span id="f000086">determined to sleep no more.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Such visions as I had experienced were too much for me to endure again.</span>
   <span id="f000088">And in the glow of the moon I saw how unwise I had been to travel by day.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Without the glare of the parching sun,</span>
   <span id="f000090">my journey would have cost me less energy;</span>
   <span id="f000091">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000092">I now felt quite able to perform the ascent which had deterred me at sunset.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Picking up my pack,</span>
   <span id="f000094">I started for the crest of the eminence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">I have said that the unbroken monotony of the rolling plain was a source of vague horror to me;</span>
   <span id="f000096">but I think my horror was greater when I gained the summit of the mound and looked down the other side into an immeasurable pit or canyon,</span>
   <span id="f000097">whose black recesses the moon had not yet soared high enough to illumine.</span>
   <span id="f000098">I felt myself on the edge of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000099">peering over the rim into a fathomless chaos of eternal night.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Through my terror ran curious reminiscences of Paradise Lost,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and Satan’s hideous climb through the unfashioned realms of darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">As the moon climbed higher in the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000103">I began to see that the slopes of the valley were not quite so perpendicular as I had imagined.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Ledges and outcroppings of rock afforded fairly easy footholds for a descent,</span>
   <span id="f000105">whilst after a drop of a few hundred feet,</span>
   <span id="f000106">the declivity became very gradual.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Urged on by an impulse which I cannot definitely analyse,</span>
   <span id="f000108">I scrambled with difficulty down the rocks and stood on the gentler slope beneath,</span>
   <span id="f000109">gazing into the Stygian deeps where no light had yet penetrated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">All at once my attention was captured by a vast and singular object on the opposite slope,</span>
   <span id="f000111">which rose steeply about a hundred yards ahead of me;</span>
   <span id="f000112">an object that gleamed whitely in the newly bestowed rays of the ascending moon.</span>
   <span id="f000113">That it was merely a gigantic piece of stone,</span>
   <span id="f000114">I soon assured myself;</span>
   <span id="f000115">but I was conscious of a distinct impression that its contour and position were not altogether the work of Nature.</span>
   <span id="f000116">A closer scrutiny filled me with sensations I cannot express;</span>
   <span id="f000117">for despite its enormous magnitude,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and its position in an abyss which had yawned at the bottom of the sea since the world was young,</span>
   <span id="f000119">I perceived beyond a doubt that the strange object was a well-shaped monolith whose massive bulk had known the workmanship and perhaps the worship of living and thinking creatures.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">Dazed and frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000121">yet not without a certain thrill of the scientist’s or archaeologist’s delight,</span>
   <span id="f000122">I examined my surroundings more closely.</span>
   <span id="f000123">The moon,</span>
   <span id="f000124">now near the zenith,</span>
   <span id="f000125">shone weirdly and vividly above the towering steeps that hemmed in the chasm,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and revealed the fact that a far-flung body of water flowed at the bottom,</span>
   <span id="f000127">winding out of sight in both directions,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and almost lapping my feet as I stood on the slope.</span>
   <span id="f000129">Across the chasm,</span>
   <span id="f000130">the wavelets washed the base of the Cyclopean monolith,</span>
   <span id="f000131">on whose surface I could now trace both inscriptions and crude sculptures.</span>
   <span id="f000132">The writing was in a system of hieroglyphics unknown to me,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and unlike anything I had ever seen in books,</span>
   <span id="f000134">consisting for the most part of conventionalised aquatic symbols such as fishes,</span>
   <span id="f000135">eels,</span>
   <span id="f000136">octopi,</span>
   <span id="f000137">crustaceans,</span>
   <span id="f000138">molluscs,</span>
   <span id="f000139">whales and the like.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Several characters obviously represented marine things which are unknown to the modern world,</span>
   <span id="f000141">but whose decomposing forms I had observed on the ocean-risen plain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">It was the pictorial carving,</span>
   <span id="f000143">however,</span>
   <span id="f000144">that did most to hold me spellbound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">Plainly visible across the intervening water on account of their enormous size was an array of bas-reliefs whose subjects would have excited the envy of a Dore.</span>
   <span id="f000146">I think that these things were supposed to depict men – at least,</span>
   <span id="f000147">a certain sort of men;</span>
   <span id="f000148">though the creatures were shown disporting like fishes in the waters of some marine grotto,</span>
   <span id="f000149">or paying homage at some monolithic shrine which appeared to be under the waves as well.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Of their faces and forms I dare not speak in detail,</span>
   <span id="f000151">for the mere remembrance makes me grow faint.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Grotesque beyond the imagination of a Poe or a Bulwer,</span>
   <span id="f000153">they were damnably human in general outline despite webbed hands and feet,</span>
   <span id="f000154">shockingly wide and flabby lips,</span>
   <span id="f000155">glassy,</span>
   <span id="f000156">bulging eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and other features less pleasant to recall.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Curiously enough,</span>
   <span id="f000159">they seemed to have been chiselled badly out of proportion with their scenic background;</span>
   <span id="f000160">for one of the creatures was shown in the act of killing a whale represented as but little larger than himself.</span>
   <span id="f000161">I remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000162">as I say,</span>
   <span id="f000163">their grotesqueness and strange size;</span>
   <span id="f000164">but in a moment decided that they were merely the imaginary gods of some primitive fishing or seafaring tribe;</span>
   <span id="f000165">some tribe whose last descendant had perished eras before the first ancestor of the Piltdown or Neanderthal Man was born.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">Awestruck at this unexpected glimpse into a past beyond the conception of the most daring anthropologist,</span>
   <span id="f000167">I stood musing whilst the moon cast queer reflections on the silent channel before me.</span>
   <span id="f000168">Then suddenly I saw it.</span>
   <span id="f000169">With only a slight churning to mark its rise to the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000170">the thing slid into view above the dark waters.</span>
   <span id="f000171">Vast,</span>
   <span id="f000172">Polyphemus-like,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and loathsome,</span>
   <span id="f000174">it darted like a stupendous monster of nightmares to the monolith,</span>
   <span id="f000175">about which it flung its gigantic scaly arms,</span>
   <span id="f000176">the while it bowed its hideous head and gave vent to certain measured sounds.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I think I went mad then.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">Of my frantic ascent of the slope and cliff,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and of my delirious journey back to the stranded boat,</span>
   <span id="f000180">I remember little.</span>
   <span id="f000181">I believe I sang a great deal,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and laughed oddly when I was unable to sing.</span>
   <span id="f000183">I have indistinct recollections of a great storm some time after I reached the boat;</span>
   <span id="f000184">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000185">I knew that I heard peals of thunder and other tones which Nature utters only in her wildest moods.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">When I came out of the shadows I was in a San Francisco hospital;</span>
   <span id="f000187">brought thither by the captain of the American ship which had picked up my boat in mid-ocean.</span>
   <span id="f000188">In my delirium I had said much,</span>
   <span id="f000189">but found that my words had been given scant attention.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Of any land upheaval in the Pacific,</span>
   <span id="f000191">my rescuers knew nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000192">nor did I deem it necessary to insist upon a thing which I knew they could not believe.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Once I sought out a celebrated ethnologist,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and amused him with peculiar questions regarding the ancient Philistine legend of Dagon,</span>
   <span id="f000195">the Fish-God;</span>
   <span id="f000196">but soon perceiving that he was hopelessly conventional,</span>
   <span id="f000197">I did not press my inquiries.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">It is at night,</span>
   <span id="f000199">especially when the moon is gibbous and waning,</span>
   <span id="f000200">that I see the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000201">I tried morphine;</span>
   <span id="f000202">but the drug has given only transient surcease,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and has drawn me into its clutches as a hopeless slave.</span>
   <span id="f000204">So now I am to end it all,</span>
   <span id="f000205">having written a full account for the information or the contemptuous amusement of my fellow-men.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Often I ask myself if it could not all have been a pure phantasm – a mere freak of fever as I lay sun-stricken and raving in the open boat after my escape from the German man-of-war.</span>
   <span id="f000207">This I ask myself,</span>
   <span id="f000208">but ever does there come before me a hideously vivid vision in reply.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I cannot think of the deep sea without shuddering at the nameless things that may at this very moment be crawling and floundering on its slimy bed,</span>
   <span id="f000210">worshipping their ancient stone idols and carving their own detestable likenesses on submarine obelisks of water-soaked granite.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I dream of a day when they may rise above the billows to drag down in their reeking talons the remnants of puny,</span>
   <span id="f000212">war-exhausted mankind – of a day when the land shall sink,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and the dark ocean floor shall ascend amidst universal pandemonium.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">The end is near.</span>
   <span id="f000215">I hear a noise at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000216">as of some immense slippery body lumbering against it.</span>
   <span id="f000217">It shall not find me.</span>
   <span id="f000218">God,</span>
   <span id="f000219">that hand!</span>
   <span id="f000220">The window!</span>
   <span id="f000221">The window!</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

