<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Tomb</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">In relating the circumstances which have led to my confinement within this refuge for the demented,</span>
   <span id="f000003">I am aware that my present position will create a natural doubt of the authenticity of my narrative.</span>
   <span id="f000004">It is an unfortunate fact that the bulk of humanity is too limited in its mental vision to weigh with patience and intelligence those isolated phenomena,</span>
   <span id="f000005">seen and felt only by a psychologically sensitive few,</span>
   <span id="f000006">which lie outside its common experience.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Men of broader intellect know that there is no sharp distinction betwixt the real and the unreal;</span>
   <span id="f000008">that all things appear as they do only by virtue of the delicate individual physical and mental media through which we are made conscious of them;</span>
   <span id="f000009">but the prosaic materialism of the majority condemns as madness the flashes of supersight which penetrate the common veil of obvious empricism.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">My name is Jervas Dudley,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and from earliest childhood I have been a dreamer and a visionary.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Wealthy beyond the necessity of a commercial life,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and temperamentally unfitted for the formal studies and social recreation of my acquaintances,</span>
   <span id="f000014">I have dwelt ever in realms apart from the visible world;</span>
   <span id="f000015">spending my youth and adolescence in ancient and little known books,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and in roaming the fields and groves of the region near my ancestral home.</span>
   <span id="f000017">I do not think that what I read in these books or saw in these fields and groves was exactly what other boys read and saw there;</span>
   <span id="f000018">but of this I must say little,</span>
   <span id="f000019">since detailed speech would but confirm those cruel slanders upon my intellect which I sometimes overhear from the whispers of the stealthy attendants around me.</span>
   <span id="f000020">It is sufficient for me to relate events without analyzing causes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">I have said that I dwelt apart from the visible world,</span>
   <span id="f000022">but I have not said that I dwelt alone.</span>
   <span id="f000023">This no human creature may do;</span>
   <span id="f000024">for lacking the fellowship of the living,</span>
   <span id="f000025">he inevitably draws upon the companionship of things that are not,</span>
   <span id="f000026">or are no longer,</span>
   <span id="f000027">living.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Close by my home there lies a singular wooded hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000029">in whose twilight deeps I spent most of my time;</span>
   <span id="f000030">reading,</span>
   <span id="f000031">thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and dreaming.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Down its moss-covered slopes my first steps of infancy were taken,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and around its grotesquely gnarled oak trees my first fancies of boyhood were woven.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Well did I come to know the presiding dryads of those trees,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and often have I watched their wild dances in the struggling beams of a waning moon but of these things I must not now speak.</span>
   <span id="f000037">I will tell only of the lone tomb in the darkest of the hillside thickets;</span>
   <span id="f000038">the deserted tomb of the Hydes,</span>
   <span id="f000039">an old and exalted family whose last direct descendant had been laid within its black recesses many decades before my birth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">The vault to which I refer is of ancient granite,</span>
   <span id="f000041">weathered and discolored by the mists and dampness of generations.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Excavated back into the hillside,</span>
   <span id="f000043">the structure is visible only at the entrance.</span>
   <span id="f000044">The door,</span>
   <span id="f000045">a ponderous and forbidding slab of stone,</span>
   <span id="f000046">hangs upon rusted iron hinges,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and is fastened ajar in a queerly sinister way by means of heavy iron chains and padlocks,</span>
   <span id="f000048">according to a gruesome fashion of half a century ago.</span>
   <span id="f000049">The abode of the race whose scions are here inurned had once crowned the declivity which holds the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000050">but had long since fallen victim to the flames which sprang up from a stroke of lightning.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Of the midnight storm which destroyed this gloomy mansion,</span>
   <span id="f000052">the older inhabitants of the region sometimes speak in hushed and uneasy voices;</span>
   <span id="f000053">alluding to what they call ’divine wrath’ in a manner that in later years vaguely increased the always strong fascination which I had felt for the forest-darkened sepulcher.</span>
   <span id="f000054">One man only had perished in the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000055">When the last of the Hydes was buried in this place of shade and stillness,</span>
   <span id="f000056">the sad urnful of ashes had come from a distant land,</span>
   <span id="f000057">to which the family had repaired when the mansion burned down.</span>
   <span id="f000058">No one remains to lay flowers before the granite portal,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and few care to brave the depressing shadows which seem to linger strangely about the water-worn stones.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">I shall never forget the afternoon when first I stumbled upon the half-hidden house of death.</span>
   <span id="f000061">It was in midsummer,</span>
   <span id="f000062">when the alchemy of nature transmutes the sylvan landscape to one vivid and almost homogeneous mass of green;</span>
   <span id="f000063">when the senses are well-nigh intoxicated with the surging seas of moist verdure and the subtly indefinable odors of the soil and the vegetation.</span>
   <span id="f000064">In such surroundings the mind loses its perspective;</span>
   <span id="f000065">time and space become trivial and unreal,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and echoes of a forgotten prehistoric past beat insistently upon the enthralled consciousness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">All day I had been wandering through the mystic groves of the hollow;</span>
   <span id="f000068">thinking thoughts I need not discuss,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and conversing with things I need not name.</span>
   <span id="f000070">In years a child of ten,</span>
   <span id="f000071">I had seen and heard many wonders unknown to the throng;</span>
   <span id="f000072">and was oddly aged in certain respects.</span>
   <span id="f000073">When,</span>
   <span id="f000074">upon forcing my way between two savage clumps of briars,</span>
   <span id="f000075">I suddenly encountered the entrance of the vault,</span>
   <span id="f000076">I had no knowledge of what I had discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000077">The dark blocks of granite,</span>
   <span id="f000078">the door so curiously ajar,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and the funeral carvings above the arch,</span>
   <span id="f000080">aroused in me no associations of mournful or terrible character.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Of graves and tombs I knew and imagined much,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but had on account of my peculiar temperament been kept from all personal contact with churchyards and cemeteries.</span>
   <span id="f000083">The strange stone house on the woodland slope was to me only a source of interest and speculation;</span>
   <span id="f000084">and its cold,</span>
   <span id="f000085">damp interior,</span>
   <span id="f000086">into which I vainly peered through the aperture so tantalizingly left,</span>
   <span id="f000087">contained for me no hint of death or decay.</span>
   <span id="f000088">But in that instant of curiosity was born the madly unreasoning desire which has brought me to this hell of confinement.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Spurred on by a voice which must have come from the hideous soul of the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000090">I resolved to enter the beckoning gloom in spite of the ponderous chains which barred my passage.</span>
   <span id="f000091">In the waning light of day I alternately rattled the rusty impediments with a view to throwing wide the stone door,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and essayed to squeeze my slight form through the space already provided;</span>
   <span id="f000093">but neither plan met with success.</span>
   <span id="f000094">At first curious,</span>
   <span id="f000095">I was now frantic;</span>
   <span id="f000096">and when in the thickening twilight I returned to my home,</span>
   <span id="f000097">I had sworn to the hundred gods of the grove that at any cost I would some day force an entrance to the black,</span>
   <span id="f000098">chilly depths that seemed calling out to me.</span>
   <span id="f000099">The physician with the iron-grey beard who comes each day to my room,</span>
   <span id="f000100">once told a visitor that this decision marked the beginning of a pitiful monomania;</span>
   <span id="f000101">but I will leave final judgment to my readers when they shall have learnt all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">The months following my discovery were spent in futile attempts to force the complicated padlock of the slightly open vault,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and in carefully guarded inquiries regarding the nature and history of the structure.</span>
   <span id="f000104">With the traditionally receptive ears of the small boy,</span>
   <span id="f000105">I learned much;</span>
   <span id="f000106">though an habitual secretiveness caused me to tell no one of my information or my resolve.</span>
   <span id="f000107">It is perhaps worth mentioning that I was not at all surprised or terrified on learning of the nature of the vault.</span>
   <span id="f000108">My rather original ideas regarding life and death had caused me to associate the cold clay with the breathing body in a vague fashion;</span>
   <span id="f000109">and I felt that the great and sinister family of the burned-down mansion was in some way represented within the stone space I sought to explore.</span>
   <span id="f000110">Mumbled tales of the weird rites and godless revels of bygone years in the ancient hall gave to me a new and potent interest in the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000111">before whose door I would sit for hours at a time each day.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Once I thrust a candie within the nearly closed entrance,</span>
   <span id="f000113">but could see nothing save a flight of damp stone steps leading downward.</span>
   <span id="f000114">The odor of the place repelled yet bewitched me.</span>
   <span id="f000115">I felt I had known it before,</span>
   <span id="f000116">in a past remote beyond all recollection;</span>
   <span id="f000117">beyond even my tenancy of the body I now possess.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">The year after I first beheld the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000119">I stumbled upon a worm-eaten translation of Plutarch’s Lives in the book-filled attic of my home.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Reading the life of Theseus,</span>
   <span id="f000121">I was much impressed by that passage telling of the great stone beneath which the boyish hero was to find his tokens of destiny whenever he should become old enough to lift its enormous weight.</span>
   <span id="f000122">The legend had the effect of dispelling my keenest impatience to enter the vault,</span>
   <span id="f000123">for it made me feel that the time was not yet ripe.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Later,</span>
   <span id="f000125">I told myself,</span>
   <span id="f000126">I should grow to a strength and ingenuity which might enable me to unfasten the heavily chained door with ease;</span>
   <span id="f000127">but until then I would do better by conforming to what seemed the will of Fate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">Accordingly my watches by the dank portal became less persistent,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and much of my time was spent in other though equally strange pursuits.</span>
   <span id="f000130">I would sometimes rise very quietly in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000131">stealing out to walk in those church-yards and places of burial from which I had been kept by my parents.</span>
   <span id="f000132">What I did there I may not say,</span>
   <span id="f000133">for I am not now sure of the reality of certain things;</span>
   <span id="f000134">but I know that on the day after such a nocturnal ramble I would often astonish those about me with my knowledge of topics almost forgotten for many generations.</span>
   <span id="f000135">It was after a night like this that I shocked the community with a queer conceit about the burial of the rich and celebrated Squire Brewster,</span>
   <span id="f000136">a maker of local history who was interred in 1711,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and whose slate headstone,</span>
   <span id="f000138">bearing a graven skull and crossbones,</span>
   <span id="f000139">was slowly crumbling to powder.</span>
   <span id="f000140">In a moment of childish imagination I vowed not only that the undertaker,</span>
   <span id="f000141">Goodman Simpson,</span>
   <span id="f000142">had stolen the silver-buckled shoes,</span>
   <span id="f000143">silken hose,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and satin small-clothes of the deceased before burial;</span>
   <span id="f000145">but that the Squire himself,</span>
   <span id="f000146">not fully inanimate,</span>
   <span id="f000147">had turned twice in his mound-covered coffin on the day after interment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">But the idea of entering the tomb never left my thoughts;</span>
   <span id="f000149">being indeed stimulated by the unexpected genealogical discovery that my own maternal ancestry possessed at least a slight link with the supposediy extinct family of the Hydes.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Last of my paternal race,</span>
   <span id="f000151">I was likewise the last of this older and more mysterious line.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I began to feel that the tomb was mine,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and to look forward with hot eagerness to the time when I might pass within that stone door and down those slimy stone steps in the dark.</span>
   <span id="f000154">I now formed the habit of listening very intently at the slightly open portal,</span>
   <span id="f000155">choosing my favorite hours of midnight stillness for the odd vigil.</span>
   <span id="f000156">By the time I came of age,</span>
   <span id="f000157">I had made a small clearing in the thicket before the mold-stained facade of the hillside,</span>
   <span id="f000158">allowing the surrounding vegetation to encircle and overhang the space like the walls and roof of a sylvan bower.</span>
   <span id="f000159">This bower was my temple,</span>
   <span id="f000160">the fastened door my shrine,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and here I would lie outstretched on the mossy ground,</span>
   <span id="f000162">thinking strange thoughts and dreaming strange dreams.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">The night of the first revelation was a sultry one.</span>
   <span id="f000164">I must have fallen asleep from fatigue,</span>
   <span id="f000165">for it was with a distinct sense of awakening that I heard the voices.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Of these tones and accents I hesitate to speak;</span>
   <span id="f000167">of their quality I will not speak;</span>
   <span id="f000168">but I may say that they presented certain uncanny differences in vocabulary,</span>
   <span id="f000169">pronunciation,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and mode of utterance.</span>
   <span id="f000171">Every shade of New England dialect,</span>
   <span id="f000172">from the uncouth syllables of the Puritan colonists to the precise rhetoric of fifty years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000173">seemed represented in that shadowy colloquy,</span>
   <span id="f000174">though it was only later that I noticed the fact.</span>
   <span id="f000175">At the time,</span>
   <span id="f000176">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000177">my attention was distracted from this matter by another phenomenon;</span>
   <span id="f000178">a phenomenon so fleeting that I could not take oath upon its reality.</span>
   <span id="f000179">I barely fancied that as I awoke,</span>
   <span id="f000180">a light had been hurriedly extinguished within the sunken sepulcher.</span>
   <span id="f000181">I do not think I was either astounded or panic-stricken,</span>
   <span id="f000182">but I know that I was greatly and permanently changed that night.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Upon returning home I went with much directness to a rotting chest in the attic,</span>
   <span id="f000184">wherein I found the key which next day unlocked with ease the barrier I had so long stormed in vain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">It was in the soft glow of late afternoon that I first entered the vault on the abandoned slope.</span>
   <span id="f000186">A spell was upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and my heart leaped with an exultation I can but ill describe.</span>
   <span id="f000188">As I closed the door behind me and descended the dripping steps by the light of my lone candle,</span>
   <span id="f000189">I seemed to know the way;</span>
   <span id="f000190">and though the candle sputtered with the stifling reek of the place,</span>
   <span id="f000191">I felt singularly at home in the musty,</span>
   <span id="f000192">charnel-house air.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Looking about me,</span>
   <span id="f000194">I beheld many marble slabs bearing coffins,</span>
   <span id="f000195">or the remains of coffins.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Some of these were sealed and intact,</span>
   <span id="f000197">but others had nearly vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000198">leaving the silver handles and plates isolated amidst certain curious heaps of whitish dust.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Upon one plate I read the name of Sir Geoffrey Hyde,</span>
   <span id="f000200">who had come from Sussex in 1640 and died here a few years later.</span>
   <span id="f000201">In a conspicuous alcove was one fairly well preserved and untenanted casket,</span>
   <span id="f000202">adorned with a single name which brought me both a smile and a shudder.</span>
   <span id="f000203">An odd impulse caused me to climb upon the broad slab,</span>
   <span id="f000204">extinguish my candle,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and lie down within the vacant box.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">In the gray light of dawn I staggered from the vault and locked the chain of the door behind me.</span>
   <span id="f000207">I was no longer a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000208">though but twenty-one winters had chilled my bodily frame.</span>
   <span id="f000209">Early-rising villagers who observed my homeward progress looked at me strangely,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and marveled at the signs of ribald revelry which they saw in one whose life was known to be sober and solitary.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I did not appear before my parents till after a long and refreshing sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">Henceforward I haunted the tomb each night;</span>
   <span id="f000213">seeing,</span>
   <span id="f000214">hearing,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and doing things I must never recall.</span>
   <span id="f000216">My speech,</span>
   <span id="f000217">always susceptible to environmental influences,</span>
   <span id="f000218">was the first thing to succumb to the change;</span>
   <span id="f000219">and my suddenly acquired archaism of diction was soon remarked upon.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Later a queer boldness and recklessness came into my demeanor,</span>
   <span id="f000221">till I unconsciously grew to possess the bearing of a man of the world despite my lifelong seclusion.</span>
   <span id="f000222">My formerly silent tongue waxed voluble with the easy grace of a Chesterfield or the godless cynicism of a Rochester.</span>
   <span id="f000223">I displayed a peculiar erudition utterly unlike the fantastic,</span>
   <span id="f000224">monkish lore over which I had pored in youth;</span>
   <span id="f000225">and covered the fly-leaves of my books with facile impromptu epigrams which brought up suggestions of Gay,</span>
   <span id="f000226">Prior,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and the sprightliest of the Augustan wits and rimesters.</span>
   <span id="f000228">One morning at breakfast I came close to disaster by declaiming in palpably liquorish accents an effusion of Eighteenth Century bacchanalian mirth,</span>
   <span id="f000229">a bit of Georgian playfulness never recorded in a book,</span>
   <span id="f000230">which ran something like this:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000231">Come hither,</span>
   <span id="f000232">my lads,</span>
   <span id="f000233">with your tankards of ale,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000234">And drink to the present before it shall fail;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000235">Pile each on your platter a mountain of beef,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000236">For ’tis eating and drinking that bring us relief:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000237">So fill up your glass,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000238">For life will soon pass;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000239">When you’re dead ye’ll ne’er drink to your king or your lass!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">Anacreon had a red nose,</span>
   <span id="f000241">so they say;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000242">But what’s a red nose if ye’re happy and gay?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000243">Gad split me!</span>
   <span id="f000244">I’d rather be red whilst I’m here,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000245">Than white as a lily and dead half a year!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000246">So Betty,</span>
   <span id="f000247">my miss,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000248">Come give me a kiss;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000249">In hell there’s no innkeeper’s daughter like this!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">Young Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000251">propp’d up just as straight as he’s able,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000252">Will soon lose his wig and slip under the table,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000253">But fill up your goblets and pass ’em around<br /></span>
   <span id="f000254">Better under the table than under the ground!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000255">So revel and chaff<br /></span>
   <span id="f000256">As ye thirstily quaff:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000257">Under six feet of dirt ’tis less easy to laugh!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">The fiend strike me blue!</span>
   <span id="f000259">l’m scarce able to walk,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000260">And damn me if I can stand upright or talk!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000261">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000262">landlord,</span>
   <span id="f000263">bid Betty to summon a chair;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000264">l’ll try home for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000265">for my wife is not there!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000266">So lend me a hand;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000267">I’m not able to stand,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000268">But I’m gay whilst I linger on top of the land!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000269">About this time I conceived my present fear of fire and thunderstorms.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Previously indifferent to such things,</span>
   <span id="f000271">I had now an unspeakable horror of them;</span>
   <span id="f000272">and would retire to the innermost recesses of the house whenever the heavens threatened an electrical display.</span>
   <span id="f000273">A favorite haunt of mine during the day was the ruined cellar of the mansion that had burned down,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and in fancy I would picture the structure as it had been in its prime.</span>
   <span id="f000275">On one occasion I startled a villager by leading him confidently to a shallow subcellar,</span>
   <span id="f000276">of whose existence I seemed to know in spite of the fact that it had been unseen and forgotten for many generations.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">At last came that which I had long feared.</span>
   <span id="f000278">My parents,</span>
   <span id="f000279">alarmed at the altered manner and appearance of their only son,</span>
   <span id="f000280">commenced to exert over my movements a kindly espionage which threatened to result in disaster.</span>
   <span id="f000281">I had told no one of my visits to the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000282">having guarded my secret purpose with religious zeal since childhood;</span>
   <span id="f000283">but now I was forced to exercise care in threading the mazes of the wooded hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000284">that I might throw off a possible pursuer.</span>
   <span id="f000285">My key to the vault I kept suspended from a cord about my neck,</span>
   <span id="f000286">its presence known only to me.</span>
   <span id="f000287">I never carried out of the sepulcher any of the things I came upon whilst within its walls.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">One morning as I emerged from the damp tomb and fastened the chain of the portal with none too steady hand,</span>
   <span id="f000289">I beheld in an adjacent thicket the dreaded face of a watcher.</span>
   <span id="f000290">Surely the end was near;</span>
   <span id="f000291">for my bower was discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and the objective of my nocturnal journeys revealed.</span>
   <span id="f000293">The man did not accost me,</span>
   <span id="f000294">so I hastened home in an effort to overhear what he might report to my careworn father.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Were my sojourns beyond the chained door about to be proclaimed to the world?</span>
   <span id="f000296">Imagine my delighted astonishment on hearing the spy inform my parent in a cautious whisper that I had spent the night in the bower outside the tomb;</span>
   <span id="f000297">my sleep-filmed eyes fixed upon the crevice where the padlocked portal stood ajar!</span>
   <span id="f000298">By what miracle had the watcher been thus deluded?</span>
   <span id="f000299">I was now convinced that a supernatural agency protected me.</span>
   <span id="f000300">Made bold by this heaven-sent circumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000301">I began to resume perfect openness in going to the vault;</span>
   <span id="f000302">confident that no one could witness my entrance.</span>
   <span id="f000303">For a week I tasted to the full joys of that charnel conviviality which I must not describe,</span>
   <span id="f000304">when the thing happened,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and I was borne away to this accursed abode of sorrow and monotony.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">I should not have ventured out that night;</span>
   <span id="f000307">for the taint of thunder was in the clouds,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and a hellish phosphoresence rose from the rank swamp at the bottom of the hollow.</span>
   <span id="f000309">The call of the dead,</span>
   <span id="f000310">too,</span>
   <span id="f000311">was different.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Instead of the hillside tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000313">it was the charred cellar on the crest of the slope whose presiding demon beckoned to me with unseen fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000314">As I emerged from an intervening grove upon the plain before the ruin,</span>
   <span id="f000315">I beheld in the misty moonlight a thing I had always vaguely expected.</span>
   <span id="f000316">The mansion,</span>
   <span id="f000317">gone for a century,</span>
   <span id="f000318">once more reared its stately height to the raptured vision;</span>
   <span id="f000319">every window ablaze with the splendor of many candles.</span>
   <span id="f000320">Up the long drive rolled the coaches of the Boston gentry,</span>
   <span id="f000321">whilst on foot came a numerous assemblage of powdered exquisites from the neighboring mansions.</span>
   <span id="f000322">With this throng I mingled,</span>
   <span id="f000323">though I knew I belonged with the hosts rather than with the guests.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Inside the hall were music,</span>
   <span id="f000325">laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and wine on every hand.</span>
   <span id="f000327">Several faces I recognized;</span>
   <span id="f000328">though I should have known them better had they been shriveled or eaten away by death and decomposition.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Amidst a wild and reckless throng I was the wildest and most abandoned.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Gay blasphemy poured in torrents from my lips,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and in shocking sallies I heeded no law of God,</span>
   <span id="f000332">or nature.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">Suddenly a peal of thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000334">resonant even above the din of the swinish revelry,</span>
   <span id="f000335">clave the very roof and laid a hush of fear upon the boisterous company.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Red tongues of flame and searing gusts of heat engulfed the house;</span>
   <span id="f000337">and the roysterers,</span>
   <span id="f000338">struck with terror at the descent of a calamity which seemed to transcend the bounds of unguided nature,</span>
   <span id="f000339">fled shrieking into the night.</span>
   <span id="f000340">I alone remained,</span>
   <span id="f000341">riveted to my seat by a groveling fear which I had never felt before.</span>
   <span id="f000342">And then a second horror took possession of my soul.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Burnt alive to ashes,</span>
   <span id="f000344">my body dispersed by the four winds,</span>
   <span id="f000345">I might never lie in the tomb of the Hydes!</span>
   <span id="f000346">Was not my coffin prepared for me?</span>
   <span id="f000347">Had I not a right to rest till eternity amongst the descendants of Sir Geoffrey Hyde?</span>
   <span id="f000348">Aye!</span>
   <span id="f000349">I would claim my heritage of death,</span>
   <span id="f000350">even though my soul go seeking through the ages for another corporeal tenement to represent it on that vacant slab in the alcove of the vault.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Jervas Hyde should never share the sad fate of Palinurus!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">As the phantom of the burning house faded,</span>
   <span id="f000353">I found myself screaming and struggling madly in the arms of two men,</span>
   <span id="f000354">one of whom was the spy who had followed me to the tomb.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Rain was pouring down in torrents,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and upon the southern horizon were flashes of lightning that had so lately passed over our heads.</span>
   <span id="f000357">My father,</span>
   <span id="f000358">his face lined with sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000359">stood by as I shouted my demands to be laid within the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000360">frequently admonishing my captors to treat me as gently as they could.</span>
   <span id="f000361">A blackened circle on the floor of the ruined cellar told of a violent stroke from the heavens;</span>
   <span id="f000362">and from this spot a group of curious villagers with lanterns were prying a small box of antique workmanship,</span>
   <span id="f000363">which the thunderbolt had brought to light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">Ceasing my futile and now objectless writhing,</span>
   <span id="f000365">I watched the spectators as they viewed the treasure-trove,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and was permitted to share in their discoveries.</span>
   <span id="f000367">The box,</span>
   <span id="f000368">whose fastenings were broken by the stroke which had unearthed it,</span>
   <span id="f000369">contained many papers and objects of value,</span>
   <span id="f000370">but I had eyes for one thing alone.</span>
   <span id="f000371">It was the porcelain miniature of a young man in a smartly curled bag-wig,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and bore the initials ’J.</span>
   <span id="f000373">H.’ The face was such that as I gazed,</span>
   <span id="f000374">I might well have been studying my mirror.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">On the following day I was brought to this room with the barred windows,</span>
   <span id="f000376">but I have been kept informed of certain things through an aged and simple-minded servitor,</span>
   <span id="f000377">for whom I bore a fondness in infancy,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and who,</span>
   <span id="f000379">like me,</span>
   <span id="f000380">loves the churchyard.</span>
   <span id="f000381">What I have dared relate of my experiences within the vault has brought me only pitying smiles.</span>
   <span id="f000382">My father,</span>
   <span id="f000383">who visits me frequently,</span>
   <span id="f000384">declares that at no time did I pass the chained portal,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and swears that the rusted padlock had not been touched for fifty years when he examined it.</span>
   <span id="f000386">He even says that all the village knew of my journeys to the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and that I was often watched as I slept in the bower outside the grim facade,</span>
   <span id="f000388">my half-open eyes fixed on the crevice that leads to the interior.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Against these assertions I have no tangible proof to offer,</span>
   <span id="f000390">since my key to the padlock was lost in the struggle on that night of horrors.</span>
   <span id="f000391">The strange things of the past which I have learned during those nocturnal meetings with the dead he dismisses as the fruits of my lifelong and omnivorous browsing amongst the ancient volumes of the family library.</span>
   <span id="f000392">Had it not been for my old servant Hiram,</span>
   <span id="f000393">I should have by this time become quite convinced of my madness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">But Hiram,</span>
   <span id="f000395">loyal to the last,</span>
   <span id="f000396">has held faith in me,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and has done that which impels me to make public at least part of my story.</span>
   <span id="f000398">A week ago he burst open the lock which chains the door of the tomb perpetually ajar,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and descended with a lantern into the murky depths.</span>
   <span id="f000400">On a slab in an alcove he found an old but empty coffin whose tarnished plate bears the single word:</span>
   <span id="f000401">Jervas.</span>
   <span id="f000402">In that coffin and in that vault they have promised me I shall be buried.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

